 
the standard sanity losses for viewing those entities. Taking 
the plutonian drug and witnessing the true history of the 
universe  and  planet  Earth  provides  the  user  with  1D6 
Cthulhu Mythos points.

The drug can appear in liquid or tablet form and its 
manufacture  is  hinted  at  within  certain  Mythos  tomes, 
including the Book of Eibon (page 226).

Insects from   
Shaggai 

The technology of the shan seems 
most like that of the mi-go—it has been 
predominantly turned toward the dark 
science of the Mythos Gods. They fly 
through space in great pyramidal space 
ships; at the center of each of these 
craft is a ‘nuclear reactor’—which is 
thought to be a portion or dimensional 
portal to Azathoth. Weaponry is a  
particular area of shan advancement. 
Their cruel nervewhip is just one of the 
many weapons they have designed.

Shining Trapezohedron
[it was] a nearly black, red-striated polyhedron with many 
irregular flat surfaces; either a very remarkable crystal of 
some sort, or an artificial object of carved and highly polished 
mineral matter. It did not touch the bottom of the box, but 
was held suspended by means of a metal band around its 
center, with seven queerly-designed supports extending 
horizontally to angles of the box’s inner wall near the top…
exposed, [Blake] could scarcely tear his eyes from it, and as 
he looked at its glistening surfaces he almost fancied it was 
transparent, with half-formed worlds of wonder within.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Haunter of the Dark

The Cult of   
Starry Wisdom
The last recorded owners of the  
Shining Trapezohedron were a New 
England sect, known as the Starry 
Wisdom. Members purportedly held the 
artifact within a church in Providence, 
Rhode Island, between 1844 and 1877. 
The cult mysteriously dissolved and 
there is no further mention of them 
until 1934, when a doctor is reported to 
have thrown the box and jewel into the 
deepest channel of Narragansett Bay 
after reading the diary of local artist 
Robert Blake.

Rumors persist that the cult 
remains active, although nowadays it 
exists wholly underground and out of 
the public eye. The validity of tales 
of fishing boats seen late at night in 
Narragansett Bay remains unproven.

273 

chapter 13: artifacts and alien devicesUsed by: Cultists of Nyarlathotep
A  peculiar  metal  box  in  which  is  mounted  a  stone  about 
four inches thick. It rewards or damns those who look into it 
with visions of other worlds and dimensions—thus the stone 
shines with the interior light of things not of our world. 

When the box is closed (enclosing the gem in total dark-
ness), a hideous avatar of Nyarlathotep comes, known as the 
Haunter of the Dark since it abhors light—it will not enter 
any space where light is present, not even the pale circles of 
light cast by street lamps.

The stone exercises great command over human psyches 
and is believed to be used by worshippers of Nyarlathotep. 
This  artifact  is  ancient,  predating  humanity  and  possibly 
manufactured by the mi-go on Yuggoth. 

Serpent People
Many serpent people kingdoms were founded on 
sorcery and alchemy; however, there is at least 
one which originated deep below the Earth in 
Yoth and then migrated to Hyperborea, and which 
raised science to new levels. It is believed that 
these serpent people were at least as advanced as 
the humans of the late twentieth century, but in 
the science of biology they far excelled.

The serpent people of Yoth were able to 
manipulate life forms as they desired. It is  
believed that both ghasts and the voormis are 
their creations, each bred to carry out certain 
