wellers have the usual range of 
unarmed attacks open to humanoids, in addition to its claws.

Fighting 30% (15/6), damage 1D6 + damage bonus
Dodge 30% (15/6)
Armor: 3-point rough hide.
Skills: Stealth 55%, Listen 60%, Spot Hidden 50%. 
Sanity Loss: 0/1D6 Sanity points to see a sand-dweller.

Serpent People
They walked lithely and sinuously erect on pre-mammalian 
members, their pied and hairless bodies bending with great 
suppleness. There was a loud hissing of formulae  
as they went to and fro.
—Clark Ashton Smith, The Seven Geases

Serpent  people  resemble  upright  serpents  with  ophidian 
heads  and  scales,  a  tail,  and  two  arms  and  legs.  A  refined 
and cultured race, often met dressed in robes. Yig is revered 
above all other gods of the serpent people, for he is the fa-
ther of all snakes. In ancient times, some blasphemers chose 
instead  to  pray  to  Tsathoggua—they  were  destroyed  by  a 
vengeful god millions of years ago and it is doubtful whether 
any such outcasts remain to peddle their false litanies.

The  serpent  people’s  first  kingdom, Valusia,  flourished 
before even dinosaurs walked the Earth, some two hundred 
and  seventy-five  million  years  ago.  They  built  black  basalt 
cities and fought wars, all in the Permian era or before. They 
were then great sorcerers devoting much energy to calling 
forth  dreadful  demons  and  brewing  potent  poisons.  With 
the coming of the dinosaurs, two hundred and twenty-five 
million years ago, the first kingdom fell and serpent people 
retreated  to  strongholds  far  underground,  the  greatest  of 
which was Yoth. In these times the serpent people became 
great scientists as well, able to manipulate life itself.

In  human  prehistory  the  serpent  people  raised  their 
second kingdom at the center of the Thurian continent. It 
fell even more rapidly than the first Valusia, overthrown this 
time by humans, who later claimed the land as their own. 
Again and again the serpent people retreated before the hu-
man hordes until their last citadel of Yanyoga was destroyed 
in 10,000 B.C.

A few lurking remnants of the race survive, as do pock-
ets of dwarfed degenerates. These diminutions are likely to 
include an occasional atavistic, fully capable serpent person 
who  is  still  favored  by Yig.  Degenerate  serpent  people  are 
likely to have characteristics lessened by as much as a third. 
In addition there are certain hibernating serpent people—
the  sleepers—who  have  rested  for  thousands  of  years  or 
more. On occasion these serpent people wake, to humanity’s 
regret.  This  third  class  of  serpent  people  is  typically  more 
intelligent and powerful than  their  lurking  brothers, often 
retaining the knowledge and ability to cast great sorcery.

Tearing away a rat-thing costs an additional 1D3 hit points to 
the unfortunate victim.

Fighting 35% (17/7), damage 1D4 + damage bonus 
Dodge 45% (22/9)
Armor: None, but attacks to hit a running rat-thing are made with 

one penalty die.

Skills: Dodge 45%, Stealth 75%, Listen 50%.
Sanity Loss: 0/1D6 Sanity points to see a rat-thing; if the rat-thing 
was  known  to  the  observer  in  life,  however,  it  costs  1/1D8 
Sanity points to see it.

Sand-Dweller
Then out of one of the caves came a Sand-Dweller—rough-
skinned,