 randomly by rolling 
two or more six-sided dice. Each rolled result is then multi-
plied by 5 to generate a percentage number that may initially 
range between 15% and 90%. 

Rolling Characteristics
Initially write your results on a piece of scrap paper before 
writing  them  onto  the  investigator  sheet  as  they  may  be 
modified by the age of your investigator. 

STR (Strength): Roll 3D6 and multiply by 5 to 
generate the Strength characteristic.

Strength measures the muscle power of an investigator. The 
higher it is, the more the investigator can lift or tightly cling 
to something. This characteristic determines the damage an 
investigator  inflicts  in  hand-to-hand  combat.  Reduced  to 
STR 0, an investigator is an invalid, unable to get out of bed. 

CON (Constitution): Roll 3D6 and multiply by 
5 to generate the Constitution characteristic.

Constitution  represents  health,  vigor,  and  vitality.  Poisons 
and diseases may directly challenge an investigator’s consti-
tution. Investigators with a high constitution often have more 
hit  points—the  better  to  resist  injury  and  attack.  Serious 
physical injury or magical attack might lower the statistic, and 
if constitution reaches zero, the investigator dies. 

30 

Call of CthulhuDo Low Characteristics 
Make Poor Investigators?
Often in roleplaying games, the higher the player char-
acter’s  characteristics,  the  better  the  chances  for  that 
character’s  success  in  the  game.  However,  in  Call  of 
Cthulhu, low characteristic scores do not always mean 
that  the  investigator  will  be  hindered  and  unable  to 
perform as part of the investigator’s group. Often one 
or two low characteristic scores can help to bring the 
investigator ‘to life’ and feel more real—as opposed to 
some incredible superhuman!

Rather than rejecting a low roll, try to incorporate it 
into the overall makeup of your investigator. Perhaps a 
low dexterity means that the investigator has suffered 
some  form  of  leg  or  hand  injury  while  in  the  armed 
forces, or a low education is the result of never attend-
ing school and being forced to grow up on the streets.

SIZ (Size): Roll 2D6+6 and multiply by 5 to 
generate a Size characteristic. 

Size averages both height and weight into a single number. 
To see over a wall, to squeeze through a small opening, or 
even to judge whose head might be sticking up out of the 
grass, use size. Size helps determine hit points and damage 
bonus  and  build.  One  might  decrease  SIZ  to  indicate  the 
loss  of  a  limb,  though  lowering  DEX  is  more  often  the 
solution. Presumably if investigators lose all SIZ points they 
disappear—goodness knows to where!

DEX (Dexterity): Roll 3D6 and multiply by 5 
to generate a Dexterity characteristic. 

Investigators with higher Dexterity scores are quicker, nimbler 
and more physically flexible. A DEX roll might be made to grab 
a support to keep from falling, to move faster than an opponent, 
or to accomplish some delicate task. An investigator with zero 
DEX is uncoordinated and unable to perform physical tasks.

In combat, the character with the highest DEX acts first 

(see Chapter 6: Combat).

APP (Appearance): Roll 3D6 and multiply by 5 
to generate an Appearance characteristic. 

Appearance measures both physical attractiveness and per-
sonality. A person with high APP is charming and likeable, 
but may lack conventional good looks. Someone with APP 
of 0 is appallingly ugly, possibly with a wholly detestable 
demeanor, provoking comment and shock everywhere. 

APP may be useful in social encounters or when trying 

to make a good impression. 

INT (Intelligence): Roll 2D6+6 and multiply 
by 5 to generate an Intelligence characteristic. 

Intelligence represents how