 Cthulhu),  Sign  of 
the Master (Elder Sign), Warding.

Cthaat Aquadingen 
Two versions follow:

Cthaat Aquadingen

Latin, author unknown, c. 11-12th century
A comprehensive study of the deep ones. Three copies of this 
Latin version exist, identically bound in human skin said to 
sweat  when  the  humidity  drops  too  low.  One  is  allegedly 
held at the British Museum—although the museum denies 
this—and the other two are owned by British collectors.

Sanity Loss: 2D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +4/+9 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 39
Study: 46 weeks
Suggested  Spells:  Dreams  from  God  (Contact  Deity/
Cthulhu),  Dreams  from  Zattoqua  (Contact  Deity/
Tsathoggua),  Dreams  of  the  Drowner  (Contact 
Deity/Yibb-Tstll), Speak with Sea Children (Contact 
Deep Ones), Speak with Father Dagon, Speak with 
Mother Hydra (Contact Deep One/Mother Hydra) 
Speak  with  God-Child  (Contact  Star-Spawn  of 
Cthulhu), Nyhargo Dirge (this last spell is a reversal 
of the Resurrection spell, used to destroy revenants).

William Tedworth, an eccectric         
occult scholar, claimed to have seen  
a copy of the Cthaat Aquadingen in the 
doctor’s library of Oakdeen Sanitarium 
in 1935. Due to the loss and damage of 
many records in the wake of the events 
of 1st January 1936, it is unknown 
whether Tedworth was a patient, 
visitor, or temporary consultant at the 
facility; the determination of which 
would shed light upon the veracity of 
his claim.

227 

chapter 11: Tomes of Eldritch LoreDe Vermiis Mysteriis
Latin, by Ludwig Prinn, 1542
Black  letter  folio  printed  in  Cologne,  Germany,  in  the  same 
year. Suppressed by the Church. Fifteen copies have survived. 
In part discusses the Arab world, and things supernatural there. 

Sanity Loss: 2D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +4/+8 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 36
Study: 48 weeks 
Suggested Spells: Contact Deity/Yig, Create Scrying Win-
dow, Create Zombie, Invoke Demon (Summon/Bind 
Byakhee), Invoke Child of the Goat (Summon/Bind 
Dark  Young),  Invoke  Invisible  Servant  (Summon/
Bind Star Vampire), Mind Transfer, Voorish Sign.

Divided into sixteen chapters, 
De Vermiis Mysteriis concerns itself  
with a varied assortment of topics,  
including divination arts, necromancy, the 
creation of familiars, as well as bizarre 
theories and descriptions of entities such 
as vampires, sprites, and elementals. Certain 
copies of the tome have large sections 
written in what is considered to be Ogham 
(Druidic runes). Some suspect the Ogham 
is a cipher used by Prinn to “hide” more 
revealing and blasphemous ideas. Rumors 
circulated in the early twentieth century 
concerning the Esoteric Order of Dagon, who 
were allegedly seeking an original copy of the 
book. It is believed that within the ciphered 
sections are formulae to hasten the  
metamorphosis of a human into a deep one. 

Comprising pottery shards 
discovered near Eltdown, Southern 
England, the Eltdown Shards were 
declared untranslatable by Dr. Woodford 
and Dalton (the first to attempt a 
translation). Subsequently, however, 
numerous manuscripts purporting to be    
translations have appeared, with the 
Winters-Hall version foremost among 
them. Winters-Hall suggests that the 
Shards are none other than the writings 
of the elder things, buried when England 
was still part of the