,  doorknob-sized  lump  of 
black  metal,  covered  in  tiny  wires.  Mi-go  fire  this  weapon 
by clutching it tightly and changing the electrical resistance 
of the lump. 

When activated, the weapon fires a bluish bolt of sparks, 
causing 1D10 points of damage to the target. When it hits, 
the  electric  jolt  acts  like  a  taser,  causing  violent  muscle 
spasms that immobilize the victim for a number of rounds 
equal  to  the  damage  inflicted.  The  target  must  make  a 
CON  roll  or  fall  unconscious  for  1D6  rounds—if  the  roll 
is fumbled the target suffers cardiac arrest and dies, unless 
immediate medical intervention is received. 

Mi-go take normal rolled damage (surface burns to the 
carapace)  from  these  weapons,  but  do  not  have  electrical 
nervous systems and are immune to the other possible ef-
fects of damage from the electrical charges.

To be able to fire this alien weapon humans must realign 
the wires on the electric gun, a feat requiring a Hard Electrical 
Repair roll. So jury-rigged for human use, the weapon fires 
uncertainly.  Roll  1D6  when  attempting  to  fire:  the  weapon 
fires  only  on  a  result  of  1–2.  The  base  chance  for  a  human 
attacking with the Firearms (Electric Gun) skill is 10%.

Electric Gun

270 

Call of CthulhuGlass from Leng 
 …a great round window of a most curious clouded glass, of 
which [Wilbur] said only that it was a work of great antiqui-
ty, which he had discovered and acquired in the course of his 
travels in Asia. He referred to it at one time as “the glass from 
Leng” and at another as “possibly Hyadean in origin”, neither 
of which enlightened me in the slightest.

—August Derleth and H.P. Lovecraft, The Gable Window

Used by: Anyone
This magical arcane glass allows the possessor to see random 
visions of other places. The owner inscribes a pentagram in 
red chalk (presumably for protection), recites a brief verse 
and then the glass shows a scene of beings from the Cthulhu 
Mythos. Unfortunately, such beings can also see through the 
glass to the user’s side. The choice of scene viewed is not of 
the user’s choice and appears randomly.

The  spell  used  to  enchant  the  glass  is  long  forgotten, 
although rumors persist that a certain odd fellow who lives 
in Carcosa will impart the spell if a bargain can be reached.

The Moon Lens
Within Goatswood, in the Severn  
Valley of England, resides an artifact 
known as the moon lens. Built by  
worshippers of Shub-Niggurath, the lens 
acts to concentrate a beam of moonlight 
and so aid in the summoning of the Dark 
Mother with a Thousand Young at the 
full moon (instead of the dark of the 
moon as normally required).

Researchers of the occult suggest 
that the moon lens is actually a glass 
from Leng specifically tuned to the  
vibrations and space wherein  
Shub-Niggurath dwells. If so, then it 
would effectively provide the god with a 
direct semi-permanent portal or gateway 
to the Earth.

Great White Space, The

Used by: Elder things
A strange other dimension. It is unknown if the elder things 
actually created this dimension; however there is no doubt 
that they actively exploited it. It connects places light years 
apart and is or was used by the elder things to traverse the 
universe.  The  elder  things  created  at  least  one  portal  to 
the Great White Space on Earth, deep in the mountains of 
China; whether more portals exist remains to be discovered.

Elder Things
A billion years ago elder things descended 
