 and can take no action.

Round three: 

Before Harvey can check if the creature is dead, he sees two more lurking in the shadows at the far side of the room.
Harvey’s action:
Harvey lifts his gun to fire again. Picking his target with care, he spends a whole round aiming, and gains a bonus die 

on the shot (see Aiming, page 113). 

Monster’s action:
The creatures appear to be feeding on something, heedless of the recent deafening gunshots, and are ignoring Harvey. 

Round four: 

Harvey’s action:
Harvey fires on DEX 105, after spending a round aiming. The nearest creature is mostly concealed by an overturned 
table. The table looks flimsy so Harvey chooses to shoot through it. The range is around 20 feet, beyond point-blank, but 
within the base range of the revolver (15 yards), so the difficulty level of the shot is Regular. Continued... 

115 

chapter 6: combat 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The creature is partially concealed, so Harvey takes one 
penalty die (see Cover and Concealment, page 113), 
which is negated by the bonus die he gets for aiming.

Harvey  makes  one  attack  roll  for  the  shot  and 
scores a Hard success with a roll of 09. 1D10 is rolled 
for 7 points of damage, which is reduced by 2 points 
for the armor rating of the table, giving 5 damage.

Monster’s action:
Startled by the proximity of the shot, both creatures 

realize the danger and bound for the nearby window.
Round five: 

Harvey runs to the window and empties his gun 
at the fleeing creatures. The Keeper decides that Har-
vey will get one shot at normal range. That’s Harvey’s 
sixth shot and his revolver is empty. 
Round six:

Harvey’s action:
Harvey  loads  one  bullet  and  fires  it  on  the  same 
round at the fleeing creature before it disappears from 
sight. The shot is at very long range (40 yards) so the 
difficulty  level  is  Extreme  (see  Range  and  Firearms 
Difficulty  Levels,  page  112).  A  penalty  die  is  added 
because Harvey is loading and firing a shot on the same 
round  (see  Reloading  Firearms,  page  113).  Harvey’s 
player cheers as she rolls 01 and 01 with the penalty dice, 
giving a final result of 01! A critical at very long range is 
an impale delivering 1D10 + 10 damage that drops one 
of the creatures in its tracks. 
Monster’s action:
The remaining creature escapes unharmed.
Harvey turns and sees the gored corpse of his old 
friend  Nott  lying  at  his  feet,  then  wanders  over  to 
check that the first creature is indeed dead.

Second and further attack rolls: add one penalty die (or re-
move a bonus die) for each additional attack roll. If this would 
incur three penalty dice, stick with two penalty dice and raise 
the difficulty level by one step (from Normal to Hard, Hard to 
Extreme, Extreme to Critical, or Critical to impossible).

The attacker must make a fresh attack roll for each volley 
(or burst) of shots or whenever they select a new target.

All targets should be within a reasonable arc of fire (around 
a sixty-degree arc). Ammunition is expended when moving 
between targets (one bullet per meter/yard). This is simply 
additional wasted ammunition, and for convenience is not 
factored into volley size, attack rolls, or the quantity of shots 
that can be made before incurring penalty dice. 

Resolving each attack roll:

T  If the attack roll is successful: half of the shots fired 
hit  the  target—roll  damage  for  half  of  the  shots 
(round  down,  minimum  of  one).  Subtract  any  ar-
mor from each shot.

T  If the attack roll is an Extreme success: all shots fired 
hit the target, the first half (round