 level.

Hazard:  A  location  in  a  chase  that  is 
likely to cause damage or delay, requir-
ing a skill roll.

INT:  Intelligence,  a  Characteristic.  See 
Characteristic,  also  Intelligence  roll 
(see page 31).

387 

chapter 16: APPENDICESInitial  Reading:  The  first  reading  of 
a  Mythos  tome.  Allows  an  overview 
of  the  book’s  contents,  granting  half 
Cthulhu Mythos skill gain. If the reader 
is a believer then Sanity points must be 
lost (see page 173).

Investigator: A player character.

Investigator  Development  Phase:  A 
period  in  the  game  when  players  may 
update  their  investigators  (roll  for  skill 
increases,  etc.)  Normally  occurs  at  the 
end of a gaming session or at the con-
clusion of a scenario (see page 94).

Keeper  of  Arcane  Lore:  The  person 
who runs the game. The Keeper knows 
the  secrets  of  the  plot,  describes  the 
situations  and  controls  non-player 
characters and monsters. The Keeper is 
the  final  arbiter  of  the  game  rules  and 
should  endeavor  to  maintain  balance 
and fairness in the game. 

Know  (EDU)  roll:  An  Education  roll, 
where  an  investigator's  education  and 
training  may  provide  additional  insight 
in certain situations.

Levels of Success: There are four Levels 
of  Success;  Fail,  Regular  Success,  Hard 
success, and Extreme success. Extreme 
beats Hard; Hard beats Regular; Regular 
beats Fail (see page 82). 

Luck:  A  measure  of  a  character’s  for-
tune  with  events  that  are  beyond  their 
control.

Luck roll: Used to determine the fate of 
circumstances external to the investiga-
tors (see page 90).

Madness: See Bout of Madness.

Magic  Points  (MP):  Magic  points 
represent  the  fluctuating  expression 
of  the  POW  characteristic.  Used  in 
casting spells, magic points are inherent 
to  humans  and  other 
intelligences. 
Reaching zero magic points, any further 
expenditure is deducted from hit points 
at the rate of one for one. Magic points 
regenerate  at  the  rate  of  one  per  hour 
(see page 176).

Major Wound: If damage from a single 
attack is equal to or greater than half of 
a  character’s  maximum  hit  points,  the 
character  has  suffered  a  major  wound. 
A  character  that  has  received  a  major 
wound may die if their current hit points 
are reduced to zero (see page 121). At 
the end of each week a dice roll is made 
for healing.

Maneuver: See Fighting Maneuver.

Maximum Sanity: Equal to 99–Cthul-
hu Mythos Skill (see page 155).

Medicine:  Heals  1D3  hit  points  to  an 
injured or sick character, or to stabilize 
a  dying  character  (see  page  120).  See 
Healing.

Melee Combat: See Hand-to-Hand.

Movement Rate (MOV): The number 
of meters or yards that a character can 
move with care in one round. If hurry-
ing,  a  character  might  travel  up  to  five 
times this amount (see page 33).

Mythos: See Cthulhu Mythos.

Mythos Rating: A measure of the depth 
of Cthulhu Mythos knowledge contained 
within each tome (see page 175).

NPC:  Non-Player  Character,  played  by 
the Keeper.

Obscure Clue: The Keeper may decide 
to withhold a