 her mother's heirloom mirror.

Rolling Dice

Dice Rule 1: The Keeper decides when to call for a skill roll. 
You (as Keeper) decide on the difficulty level for each skill 
roll and, by extension, decide whether a skill roll is required 
at all. If the task is routine and no drama is involved then 
it doesn’t require a roll. There may be instances when you 
want the action to move on quickly or want to avoid adding 
complications  to  the  proceedings  and  allow  the  players  to 
do something difficult without a roll; as Keeper, this is your 
prerogative.

Dice Rule 2: Dice don’t tell stories; people do.
The  dice  do  not  decide  what  winning  or  losing  means  in 
your story; that’s the Keeper’s job. When a player wins a skill 
roll, his or her goal is achieved (as agreed before the roll), 
but when they lose, the Keeper decides what happens.

Dice Rule 3: Losing a roll doesn’t necessarily mean failing 
the goal.
There are two possible outcomes of a skill roll: win or lose. 
It  is  important  to  realize  that  losing  a  dice  roll  does  not 
automatically lead to failing the task. 

Things go the way the player wants when a Pushed skill 

roll is won (the player’s goal is achieved). 

When a player loses in a Pushed skill roll things go the 
way the Keeper wants (the goal may or not be achieved and 
additional negative consequences occur).

One  of  the  keys  to  running  a  good  game  is  learning 
to define how winning or losing a dice roll translates into 
events in your story. Describe the outcome, not the dice roll.
If the player loses the roll then you get to decide what 
happens. Problems can arise if you declare an outcome that 
blocks play.

194 

Call of CthulhuThe investigators are locked in a room that is rapidly 
filling with water and have no hope of rescue. Their 
only way out is through a locked door. Andrew sets a 
goal for his investigator to “Pick the lock on the door”. 
He fails and feels compelled to push the roll. He does 
not  request  any  foreshadowing—the  consequence  of 
being  trapped  underwater  is  self-evident.  He  loses 
a  second  time,  placing  the  outcome  in  the  Keeper’s 
hands. The group has only been playing for an hour 
and dying now would bring the session to a premature 
end. This presents a problem: the investigators are all 
going to drown if the door remains closed. The Keeper 
considers the options.

Devise  a  prompt  rescue  (which  may  feel  like  a 

contrivance). 

Allow for some additional rolls (which of course 
might  also  be  lost,  leaving  the  players  in  the  same 
situation).

Have the consequence of losing the Pushed roll be 
that the room fills with water, but just before everyone 
drowns,  Andrew’s  investigator  manages  to  open  the 
door and everyone is carried out on a wave of water.
Clearly  the  final  option  is  preferable.  The  in-
vestigators  should  take  some  damage  as  part  of  the 
consequence, but they survive and the game goes on. 
The player has achieved his goal, but at a significant 
cost because he failed the Locksmith roll.

Dice Rule 4: Dice are used to determine who tells the story.

On winning a skill roll, the player gets to say what happens 
next. What the player can say has already been agreed with 
the Keeper when the goal was set. If you feel that the player 
is overstepping the mark (going far beyond the stated goal) 
you may veto the player’s comments, perhaps calling for a 
subsequent dice roll.

If the player loses a dice roll, you have free rein to de-
scribe  any  outcome  you  wish.  Usually 