  by  two  steps  and  apply  the  wall’s 
armor rating of 10 to any successful attacks.

Point-Blank Revisited
The point-blank bonus die does not apply to long or cum-
bersome  weapons  such  as  rifles,  full-length  shotguns,  and 
bows,  as  these  are  less  easily  bought  to  bear  on  a  moving 
target at close range. Short-barreled shotguns (of the kind 
designed for home defense) or sawn-off shotguns do gain 
the point-blank bonus die.

127 

chapter 6: combatProne
A prone character is assumed to be lying flat on the ground.
T  Kicking  someone  when  they  are  down  is  easier; 
fighting attacks made against a prone character gain 
one bonus die.

T  A character that is prone may stand up when they 
successfully  dodge  or  fight  back  against  an  oppo-
nent. Alternatively,  when  it  comes  to  their  turn  in 
the  round,  they  may  stand  up  and  then  take  their 
action.

T  Lying down provides a stable position from which 
to shoot; a prone character gets one bonus die when 
making a Firearms roll. 

T  By lying flat on the floor you present a smaller target; 
those targeting a prone character with a firearm get 
one penalty die (ignore this if at point blank-range).

Poisons
Table  III:  Other  Forms  of  Damage  (see  page  124)  covers 
mild, strong and lethal poisons in a simplified manner, and 
is likely to be all you need in the game. If you wish to focus 
on a specific type of poison and its effects, you may find this 
more detailed guide useful.

All poisons are divided into four bands: very mild, mild, 
strong and lethal. The bands indicate the deadliness of the 
poison, and assume a single dose (application, draft, bite or 
sting—depending  on  how  the  poison  is  administered).  If 
multiple doses are received, the victim adds a penalty die to 
their CON roll.

The speed at which the poison acts is determined by the 
administration  method  and  Keeper  discretion.  Fast-acting 
poisons  begin  to  work  within  a  single  round  (death  from 
cyanide  poisoning  could  be  expected  within  a  minute,  for 
example).  Slower  poisons  may  take  hours  or  even  days  to 
register their effects.

Individual poisons cause a range of different symptoms, 
including stomach pains, vomiting, diarrhea, chills, sweats, 
cramps, jaundice, altered heart rate, impaired vision, convul-
sions, unconsciousness and paralysis. It is up to the Keeper 
whether the symptoms permit the victim to act or not, or 
to act with a penalty die or an increased level of difficulty.

Alongside  the  various  symptoms,  poisons  also  cause 

physical damage.

T  Very  Mild  poisons:  no  damage,  only  temporary 

unconsciousness.

T  Mild poisons: 1D10.

T  Strong poisons: 2D10.

T  Lethal poisons: 4D10.

Those who succeed in rolling equal to or below a fifth of 
their CON suffer a lesser effect. Damage should be halved 
and symptoms reduced as decided by the Keeper. In certain 
circumstances,  Keepers  may  allow  a  poison's  effects  to  be 
shaken off if the CON roll is a critical success. A character 
might push the CON roll by attempting to purge the poi-
son,  through  vomiting,  amputation,  or  bloodletting,  for 
example.  Whether  these  things  would  work  in  real-life  is 
questionable—what matters is the drama.

128 

Call of CthulhuSample Poisons

