  of  Cthulhu 
scenario. The basic summary of the film is as follows:

The  crew  of  a  remote  Antarctic  research  facility  un-
wittingly  takes  in  a  shape-shifting  alien  that  proceeds  to 
murder and replicate members of the team. The alien has 
been  awoken  from  centuries  of  sleep  by  men  digging  in 
the ice and is now trying to survive while constructing a 
spacecraft to escape the Antarctic. 

These are the key ingredients of the story—there’s plen-
ty more going on, but this will be enough for now. Taking 
these ideas, let's rework the plot for Call of Cthulhu.

The Setup (“the mystery”):

A  team  of  researchers  from  Miskatonic  University 
is  called  to  investigate  the  disappearance  of  members  of 
an  archaeological  dig  in  the  Vermont  countryside.  The 
only  known  facts  are  that  the  archaeological  team  had 
discovered  the  remains  of  an  ancient  site  and  had  been 
conducting  the  dig  for  one  month. A  few  days  ago,  some 
local people visited the site only to discover the team had 
inexplicably  disappeared,  leaving  all  of  their  possessions 
and equipment.

What’s going on:

The team unearthed a stone tablet on which was in-
scribed the spell Summon/Bind Star Vampire and, unwit-
tingly, one of them cast the spell. The archaeological team 
were eaten by the monster (a star vampire), with only one 
survivor (we’ll call him Ted). While the spell worked, the 
summoned  star  vampire  was  not  bound  properly  and  so 
is free to do as it pleases. At the moment it is roaming the 
woods, randomly murdering the locals, livestock and wild-
life until it decides to transport itself back from whence it 
came. The missing bodies of the archeological team can be 
found in the woods near the dig site—such discoveries can 
be made by the local police and/or the investigators. Ted is 
also roaming the woods, having fled the monster’s attack. 
He has lost his mind and is insane. Star vampires are invis-
ible most of the time, so no one knows who is carrying out 
the murders, and suspicion falls upon Ted.

So, we have a relatively isolated location (enough for 
the  investigators  to  feel  they  are  on  their  own,  but  close 

enough to civilization for a range of non-player characters 
to be introduced (local farmers, the police, etc.) We have a 
reason for a team of investigators to be there (let’s assume 
the investigators can be from Miskatonic University) and 
we have a nasty monster! 

How to solve it:

Once at the site, the investigators will need to explore 
the dig site, examine the remains of those murdered, ques-
tion  the  locals,  and  ultimately  discover  the  stone  tablet, 
before  learning  the  spell  properly  and  casting  it  to  dispel 
the monster. While trying to do this, all sorts of craziness 
occurs  as  the  monster  is  on  the  loose  and  is  working  its 
way  around  the  local  farms,  killing  livestock  and  people. 
Meanwhile,  Ted  is  being  hunted  by  the  police  as  suspect 
number one. It is up to the investigators to save Ted and 
banish or kill the monster.

Three potential endings (just examples, there are many 

more):

T Some of the investigators engage the monster in 
combat as others chant the spell at the site. As it 
kills its second investigator, the spell takes effect 
and the creature is banished.

T  The  star  vampire  uses  its  magic  to  control  the 
local policeman, who leads the investigators into 
a