en-
tially quicker than a human could comprehend.

Intelligence
0: No intellect, unable to comprehend the world around them.
15:  Slow  learner,  able  to  undertake  only  the  most  basic 
math, or read beginner-level books.
50: Average human intellect.
90: Quick-witted, probably able to comprehend multiple 
languages or theorems.
99: Genius (Einstein, Da Vinci, Tesla, etc.). Human maximum.
140:  Beyond  human  intellect  (e.g.  Elder  Things,  see 
Chapter 14: Monsters, Beasts and Alien Gods).
210+:  Monstrous  intellect,  able  to  comprehend  and 
operate  in  multiple  dimensions  (e.g.  Great  Cthulhu,  see 
Chapter 14: Monsters, Beasts and Alien Gods).

Power
0: Enfeebled mind, no willpower, no magical potential.
15: Weak-willed, easily dominated by those with a greater 
intellect or willpower.
50: Average human.
90: Strong willed, driven, a high potential to connect with 
the unseen and magical.
100: Iron will, strong connection to the spiritual ‘realm’ or 
unseen world.
140: Beyond human, possibly alien (e.g. Yig, see Chapter 
14: Monsters, Beasts and Alien Gods).
210+:  Monstrous  magical  potential  and  power  beyond 
human comprehension (e.g. Great Cthulhu, see Chapter 
14: Monsters, Beasts and Alien Gods).
Note: Human POW can exceed 100, but this is exceptional.

Education

0: A newborn baby.
15: Completely uneducated in every way.
60: High school graduate.
70: College graduate (Bachelor degree).
80: Degree level graduate (Master's degree).
90: Doctorate, professor.
96: World class authority in their field of study.
99: Human maximum.

37 

chapter 3: CREATING INVESTIGATORSIntroducing Harvey Walters

by 4) yields 336 points to add to the skills listed for the 
Journalist  occupation,  as  well  as  for  his  Credit  Rating 
value.  Harvey’s  INT  is  85,  so  his  personal  interest  skill 
point total is 170 points (85 × 2 = 170). These points can 
be spent as the player desires. Harvey ‘s player allocated 
41 occupation skill points for Credit Rating, this means 
that he has an Average living standard. He may stay in 
moderately priced hotels, eat out (economically) and take 
the occasional taxi. With all of his points spent, his player 
writes down the half and fifth values for each of the skills 
on the investigator sheet.

For his backstory, Harvey’s player writes ‘handsome, 
well-dressed  and  a  little  overweight’  for  his  personal 
description. She then uses the random tables for the rest 
of Harvey’s backstory. Putting this all down on the sheet, 
it reads:

• 

• 

• 

Personal  description:  Handsome,  well  dressed 
and a little overweight. 
Ideology  /  Beliefs:  Fate.  Looks  for  signs  and 
omens. 
Significant  people:  Uncle  Theodore,  who  in-
spired  a  love  of  archaeology.  Harvey  will  prove 
himself  a  better  man  than  his  uncle,  who  was 
driven mad by his obsessions. 

•  Meaningful location: Study on the upper floor 

of home. 
Treasured  item:  Archaeological  artifacts  that 
belonged to his uncle, now in Harvey’s study. 
Trait: Ladies’ man.

• 

• 

Harvey doesn’t need anything else to begin play, just 
a notebook, pen and a lucky penny. If he were to list a car 
among his starting gear, this would have to come out of 
his assets, as a car is not listed within the 1920s Average 
Income bracket. 

Harvey is now ready to begin his adventures!

