 decides 
that Harvey loses his mind and pulls the emergency 
stop cable, bails out of the train, and runs off into the 
night.  The  Keeper  withholds  that  information  and 
simply tells the player that Harvey awakens at dawn 
in a cornfield, his clothes muddy and torn. The Book 
of Eibon lies in tatters next to him, its pages scattered 
across the field. Harvey gains “Siderodromophobia—
Fear of trains, railroads, and train travel”. 

to comprehend it; no Sanity points are lost and no Cthul-
hu Mythos skill is gained. The player may ask to push the 
roll, but must justify doing so, perhaps staying up all night 
reading or using reference books as an aid to study. When 
thinking of consequences for failing a pushed reading roll, 
the Keeper should be creative and include Sanity point loss. 
If in no hurry, they may continue to read the book without 
pushing the roll. The timing of the next reading roll is at the 
Keeper’s discretion (perhaps once per week).

The Table XI: Mythos Tomes (pages 237-239) indicates 
the  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  points  and  Sanity  point  loss  for 
each tome. Each tome has two values for Cthulhu Mythos: 
CMI (Cthulhu Mythos Initial) showing how many Cthulhu 
Mythos skill points are given for an initial reading, and CMF 
(Cthulhu  Mythos  Full)  that  shows  how  many  points  are 
given for full study of the tome. 

Once  the  investigator  has  made  an  initial  reading,  the 
Keeper should reward them with the initial reading (CMI) 
number. The reader now automatically loses the Sanity cost 
of the tome (no Sanity roll is made)—non-believers do not 
take this Sanity loss (see Becoming a Believer, page 179).

As  well  as  gaining  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  and  losing 
Sanity  points,  the  initial  reading  also  allows  the  reader  to 
learn about the contents of book and gain some idea of what 
spells it might contain. The reader will also have a clear idea 
of how long it will take to complete a full study of the book 
(see following).

Full Study

He had himself read many of them—a Latin version of 
the abhorred Necronomicon, the sinister Liber Ivonis, 
the infamous Cultes des Goules of Comte d'Erlette, the 
Unaussprechlichen Kulten of von Junzt, and old Ludvig 
Prinn's hellish De Vermis Mysteriis. But there were others he 
had known merely by reputation or not at all—the Pnakotic 
Manuscripts, the Book of Dzyan, and a crumbling volume of 
wholly unidentifiable characters yet with certain symbols and 
diagrams shudderingly recognizable to the occult student.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Haunter of the Dark

A  full  study  of  a  Mythos  tome  indicates  a  comprehensive 
reading,  as  one  might  make  when  studying  an  academic 
work, or as a religious adherent might make of a sacred text. 
This  may  involve  repeated  readings,  comparative  reading, 
use of reference works, note taking, and so on. No reading 
roll is required; if any reading roll was required, it will have 
been made during the initial reading. 

Such a study can take many months. At the end of such 
a  course  of  study,  the  reader  must  make  a  roll  for  Sanity 
point loss appropriate for the tome (if a Believer, see page 
179). The tome’s Mythos rating is then compared with the 
reader’s Cthulhu Mythos knowledge. If the reader’s Cthulhu 
Mythos skill is below the Mythos rating of  the  book, they 
gain Cth