, head-butt, mild acid, breathing smoky atmosphere*, a 
thrown fist-size rock, falling (per 10 feet) onto soft swamp.

Moderate: might cause a major 
wound; it would take a few such 
attacks to kill.

1D6

Falling (per 10 feet) onto grass, club, strong acid, breathing water*, 
exposure to vacuum*, small caliber bullet, arrow, fire (burning 
torch).

Severe: likely to cause a major 
wound. One or two occurrences 
would render a person uncon-
scious or dead.

1D10

.38 caliber bullet, falling (per 10 feet) onto concrete, axe, fire 
(flamethrower, running through a burning room), being 6 to 9 
yards from an exploding hand grenade or stick of dynamite, a mild 
poison**.

Deadly: the average person has a 
50% chance of dying.

2D10

Hit by a car at 30mph, being 3 to 6 yards from an exploding hand 
grenade or stick of dynamite, a strong poison**.

Terminal: outright death is likely.

4D10

Hit by a speeding car, being within 3 yards of an exploding hand 
grenade or stick of dynamite, a lethal poison**.

Splat: outright death almost 
certain.

8D10

Being involved in a high-speed head-on collision, being hit by a 
train.

*Asphyxiation and Drowning: a CON roll should be made each round; once a CON roll is failed, damage is sustained each 
round thereafter until death or until the victim is able to breathe. If the character is in a state of physical exertion, a Hard success 
is required on the CON roll.
**Poisons: an Extreme CON roll will halve damage from poisons. Poisons may cause a variety of additional symptoms 
including: stomach pains, vomiting, diarrhea, chills, sweats, cramps, jaundice, altered heart rate, impaired vision, convul-
sions, unconsciousness, and paralysis. It is up to the Keeper whether the symptoms permit the victim to act or not, or to 
act with a penalty die or an increased level of difficulty.

In certain circumstances, Keepers may allow a poison's effects to be shaken off if the CON roll is a critical success.

124 

Call of Cthulhuthe  start  of  a  round,  they  may  re-roll  their  DEX  roll  with 
a bonus die. If this results in a worse result than previously 
rolled, they may retain their previous place in the order.

Harvey (DEX 55) rolls 13—a Hard success. Colin (DEX 
60) rolls 84—a failure. The cultist (DEX 50) rolls 14—a 
Hard success. Harvey acts first, then the cultist, then Col-
in. If the default system had been used, the order would 
have been Colin, Harvey and then the cultist. 

Another cultist arrives part way through the com-
bat.  The  second  cultist  has  DEX  50  and  rolls  45—a 
Regular success. He slots into the initiative order after 
the first cultist. 

On a later round, Colin draws a gun and at the start 
of the following round he has a readied firearm, so he 
re-rolls his initiative with one bonus die, rolling a Hard 
success. This places him first in the order of initiative.

Knock-Out Blows
The standard rules already allow for a target to be knocked 
unconscious:  when  an  attack  inflicts  a  Major  Wound  (an 
amount of damage equal to or greater than half the target’s 
hit points), the target must make a CON roll to remain con-
scious. Also a target that is reduced to zero hit points will fall 
unconscious automatically.

The standard rules require significant lasting damage, and 
we are accustomed to seeing characters routinely knocked out 
on  TV  and  in  films.  Rather  than  suffering  a  concussion  or 
fractured skull, these fictional characters awake later, rub their 
head, and carry on as