 
player rolls 07, so Harvey’s Credit Rating drops from 
41  to  34.  Referring  to  the  Cash  and  Assets  chart,  a 
Credit Rating of 34 gets $68 cash, so this is added to 
his remaining money, giving Harvey a total of $148 in 
cash. Harvey’s assets remain at $50.

Contacts
During  the  game,  investigators  may  wish  to  make  use  of 
their  personal  and  professional  contacts.  The  Keeper  can 
either simply allow for the existence of a contact or ask for 
a dice roll. Players can make rolls to establish contacts for 
their  investigators  using  whichever  skill  or  characteristic 
seems  most  appropriate:  Chemistry  to  know  a  chemist, 
Medicine to know a surgeon, and so on. 

A successful roll when establishing a contact means that 
either the non-player character has heard of the investigator 
(by reputation) or that the investigator has previously met 
the contact. Apply modifiers to the roll as appropriate. Lo-
cation is a big factor—being far from home or in a sparsely 
populated  area  would  increase  the  difficulty  level.  If  the 
investigator  is  on  his  or  her  home  ground  and  trying  to 
contact someone of the same profession, the Keeper should 
lower the difficulty level. 

Establishing a contact does not automatically mean that 
the contact will do as the investigator wishes; some persua-
sion, fast talk, charm, or intimidation may be required, and 
should be roleplayed. 

If the player wishes to push the roll to establish a contact, 
the Keeper should make the pushed roll out of the player’s 
sight (a concealed dice roll), so the player does not know the 
outcome.  A  suggested  consequence  for  failing  the  pushed 
roll is to allow the investigator to unwittingly meet an an-
tagonistic or unreliable contact. Such a contact may appear 
helpful to the investigator, but will double-cross or deceive 
the investigator in some manner. A concealed roll is used in 
this  instance,  since  knowledge  of  the  outcome  of  the  dice 
roll would inform the player as to the contact’s disposition.

97 

chapter 5: game systemHarvey  has  traveled  to  London  and  wants  to  go 
through  the  archives  of  The  Times  for  unpublished 
evidence linked to his investigation. He is refused ac-
cess to The Times’ archives, and so seeks to establish 
a contact among the local press who might be able to 
vouch for him and gain him access. There is no jour-
nalism skill, so the Keeper suggests either Photography 
(Harvey  may  know  a  fellow  photographer)  or  Own 
Language  (as  the  skill  most  associated  with  being  a 
journalist).  The  Keeper  raises  the  difficultly  level  to 
Hard, as Harvey is a long way from home. Harvey has 
Own Language 84% and half of this or less must be 
rolled to establish a contact. Harvey fails the roll, and 
can find no contacts. He persists with trawling every 
minor  publication,  and  the  Keeper  grants  a  pushed 
roll, rolling the dice out of the player’s view (concealed 
roll). The roll is failed again and the Keeper informs 
the  player  that  Harvey  contacts  Martyn  Lace,  pub-
lisher of The Camden Enquirer, who claims to know 
of  Harvey’s  reputation  as  a  photographer.  Lace  is 
curious about Harvey, and will appear helpful while 
trying to find out about Harvey’s investigation for his 
own gain. Perhaps he will warn Harvey’s enemies (for 
a reward) or publish the story himself, thus exposing 
Harvey’s careful work.

Training
Given  enough  money,  someone  will  teach  anything.  The 
existence of training makes game sense only in campaigns