 
circle?

Spell description: this can range from subtle to dramatic. 
Try to imbue the description with strange smells, disorient-
ing visions, curious sounds, and disturbing sensations—re-
member that most of these spells erode the caster’s sanity, 
and the way in which you describe the casting should make 
this manifest.

An Example of One Spell with Variations
A spell could be compared with a cooking recipe. There is 
no  definitive  bread  recipe;  soda  bread  can  be  made  in  an 
hour while sourdough bread takes days. A variety of flours 
and other ingredients may be used. The methods of making 
can  vary;  it  can  be  done  by  hand  or  with  a  machine.  The 
resulting breads come in all shapes, sizes, and flavors. If you 
look at ten cookbooks, you will find many differing recipes 
for bread with many different names. The same is true for 
spells and tomes.

Ten tomes might list what appears at first glance to be 
the same spell; however, the specific spells will be no more 
similar  than  all  those  bread  recipes—there  is  a  world  of 
difference  between  German  black  bread  and  focaccia.  Just 
as you would choose a bread that suits your menu, so you 
may tailor a spell to fit your game. Let’s take the spell Create 
Zombie and look at a few variations. 

The Basic Create Zombie Spell

The Create Zombie spell in the Grimoire starts with a corpse 
and coverts it to a zombie. The zombie lasts until it rots or 
falls to pieces. It can take basic commands from its creator. 
The magic point cost is high (16 points) and the Sanity loss 

243 

chapter 12: grimoire(1D6) moderate. The spell takes a whole week, but will work 
and is not subject to any POW rolls.

A Quick Version of the Create Zombie Spell

It  is  conceivable  that  the  players  might  wish  to  make  a 
zombie, perhaps to carry out some dangerous task on their 
behalf. If the investigators come across a tome that is poorly 
transcribed,  incomplete,  or  damaged,  you  might  want  to 
provide them with a version of the spell which seems useful, 
but is likely to cause them more trouble than it is worth. 

Alternatively  you  might  want  to  kick  a  scenario  off 
with a Re-animator theme: a mad doctor bringing corpses 
back to life, only to find they are beyond control. The cost 
of such a spell might be halved, as it is far less useful than 
the  standard  version.  The  idea  of  starting  with  a  corpse 
that continues to rot is retained, as is the sanity loss, yet 
the casting time is reduced to one hour. The apparent ad-
vantage of faster casting and lower magic point cost might 
well appeal to the unwary. Let’s call this version of the spell 
Grey Binding.

An Improved Version of the Create Zombie Spell

What if a warlock had the original Create Zombie spell, 
but wanted a more effective servant, one that would last 
longer, one that might even pass for human? The warlock’s 
aim might be beneficent; he may even be trying to bring 
back a loved one, such as a wife or child. 

All this would of course raise the cost of the spell and, 
as it is longer-lasting, the cost might be in POW instead of 
magic points—let’s call it 5 POW. The Sanity cost might 
also be raised to 1D10, justified in the description of the 

Grey Binding 
(Create Zombie Variant)

Cost: 8 magic points; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 hour 

A  ritual  liquid  must  be  poured  over  a  prepared 
corpse. The ingredients of the liquid differ depending 
on the version of the spell; however, the blood of the 
sorcerer  appears  common  to