peakable  knowledge  of  the  Mythos—
some serpent men claim that it is like looking into the very 
face of Azathoth. 1D4 Sanity points are lost per minute the 
drug is active. During this period, the victim is highly sus-
ceptible  to  questioning,  readily  revealing  information  and 
close-kept secrets. Towards the end, the victim’s body goes 
into spasm until collapsing into unconsciousness for 1D10 
hours. It is not uncommon for the victim to wake up totally 
insane.

Accounts  suggest  that  the  black  lotus  flower  was  rare 
even  in  the  time  of  famed Valusia  and  today  it  is  thought 
the infamous plant is long extinct. However, from time to 
time, ancient vials and jars have been uncovered containing 
quantities of black stygian powder. It is unknown, yet pre-
sumable, that modern science might be able to analyze the 
powder’s compounds and recreate them.

Brain Cylinder 

Used by: Mi-go
These shiny cylinders are used to preserve extracted brains. 
Lovecraft described them as, “a foot high and somewhat less 
in  diameter,  with  three  curious  sockets  set  in  an  isosceles 
triangle over the front convex surface.” 

Each cylinder is filled with a nutrient solution that sus-
tains the brain within. Three accessory machines—a tall rig 
with twin lenses mounted on front, a box with vacuum-tubes 
and  a  sounding  board,  and  a  small  box  with  a  metal  disc 
on top—comprise the mi-go sensing apparatus. These ma-
chines, when connected to the proper sockets, provide the 
brain  with  the  faculties  of  sight,  speech,  and  hearing.  The 
mi-go, not possessed of human senses, have done their best; 

however  it  is  but  an  approximation  of  sound  and  vision. 
All visual input is grainy, of low general resolution and the 
audio is flat, like that of a monaural phonograph. Speech, 
with all its nuances of inflection and emotion, is utterly lost 
on the fungi. The speech machine talks with a mechanical, 
monotone voice, devoid of emotion. When the sensory ma-
chines  are  disconnected  or  deactivated,  the  encased  brain 
falls into a semi-insane sleep state filled with strange dreams 
and hallucinations.

Every  month  a  human  brain  is  enclosed  within  a 
cylinder,  the  brain  must  roll  under  or  equal  to  its  INT.  If 
successful, the brain remembers it is stuck inside a tin can 
and loses 1D3 Sanity points.

Carotid Toxin 

Used by: Serpent people
A rare poison that causes a slow degeneration of the carotid ar-
teries. The toxin slowly eats away at the carotid arteries, causing 
massive internal bleeding and almost inevitable death.

The effect of the poison takes a number of days equal to 
one-fifth of the victim’s CON. After this period an Extreme 
CON roll must be made, otherwise the imbiber suffers an 
agonizing  death  over  the  course  of  1D3  days.  If  the  CON 
roll  is  successful,  the  imbiber  becomes  extremely  sick  for 
1D6 days as the poison is fought off, with most needing to 
be confined to bed. No doctor will find evidence of disease. 
During this period, STR and CON temporarily drop to 10—
the  victim  is  utterly  exhausted  and  suffers  from  terrifying 
hallucinations. Thereafter, the victim regains 1D10 points of 
STR and CON per day until fully recovered.

Crystal of the Elder Things 

Used by: Elder things
Large crystalline storage containers constructed to harness 
the  power  needed  to  bind  shoggoths  to  elder  thing  will. 
These crystals store magic