 it.
Fighting 50% (25/10), damage 1D4 + damage bonus or weapon 
Bite 50% (25/10), damage 1D4 + special (see above) 
Gaze Hypnotized, see above.
Dodge: 25% (12/5)
Armor: 0, but can reform after hit points are exceeded.
Skills: Charm 60%, Human Psychology 60%, Track (Scent Blood) 

75%, Stealth 70%.
Sanity Loss: 0/1D4 Sanity points to be attacked; 1/1D3 to wit-
ness  a  transformation. Vampires  of  human  appearance  cost 
no Sanity points to see.

i  In  Christian  cultures,  the  cross  gives  pro-
tection  from  a  vampire,  at  least  for  a  while, 
and holy water touching the thing sears and 
scalds its flesh.

i  The vampire is only affected by the religion it 

practiced or understood while alive.

i  A vampire never drinks or eats. 
i  A vampire may not pass over running water.
i  A vampire can change into smoke, mist, 
a  wolf  or  a  bat  at  will.  If  smoke  or 
mist, it drifts at the rate of one yard 
per round.

Werewolf
Traditionally,  a  normal  human  is  cursed  and  occa-
sionally thereafter turns into a monster, half-human 
and  half-beast—classically  at  the  full  moon.  This 
unfortunate may be unaware of the curse or may de-
test his or her fate. A second sort may fully transform 
into a wolf, glorying in its transformations, and has 
more control over the metamorphoses than the first. 
Ravenous and savage attacks, much like the classical 

mad dog or rabid human, are typical of both. 

Both  types  of  werewolf  apparently  propa-
gate by transmitting a transformational agent 
through  the  saliva  while  biting.  In  some 
cultures  a  person  may  become  a  werewolf 

Vampire

334 

Call of Cthulhudue to witchcraft; the curse in this case being a spell. 
While some folklore suggests that a person can enact 
the  transformation  upon  themselves  by  ingesting 
certain plants and the blood of the innocent.

As humans, werewolves are outwardly nor-

mal and have normal human characteristics. 
The man-beast and giant wolf forms below 
share  common  attacks,  armor,  etc.  The 
Keeper  may  or  may  not  charge  a  sanity 
loss for the wolf form: if there is a Sanity 
loss, give the creature glowing eyes and 
other supernatural attributes to account 
for  the  perception  in  the  mind  of  the 
character.

Special Powers

Regeneration:  In  bestial  form  the 
werewolf  is  notoriously  resistant 
to  injury,  regenerating  1  hit  point 
every round. Scars and welts of such 
damage  may  remain  after  the  ravener  reassumes 
human form. Such healing is weakening, often forcing the 
shape-changer to spend days in bed. 

Werewolf

Immunity:  Werewolves  are  immune  to  most  weapons, 
however they can be damaged or killed by fire or by silver 
weapons. Its fur set afire, the werewolf loses hit points faster 
than it can regenerate. Silver, the lunar metal, is poisonous to 
the werewolf. If the werewolf receives a major wound (half 
its hit point total or above in one wound) from a weapon 
made of silver the werewolf will die. If it takes a less than 
major wound from a silver weapon the werewolf may not 
regenerate hit points so lost.

averages 
105  
65  
55 
65  
20  
65  

rolls
(6D6 ×5)
(2D6+6 ×5)
(3D6