arrulousness,  increased  self-esteem 
to  the  point  of  delusion,  decreased  need  for  sleep,  easily 
distracted,  willingness  for  dangerous  or  imprudent  activi-
ties such as reckless driving, hallucinations, delusions, and 
bizarre behavior. 

Compulsion
Compulsions tend to be ritual actions performed to affect 
the future, possibly to prevent some vague  notion of im-
pending doom. Though the character may agree the actions 
are senseless, the need to perform them is overpowering. 
Even in times of great stress, the character may ignore his 
or her survival in order to perform the ritual. 

Amnesia
An  inability  to  recall  important  personal  information, 
brought on by a desire to avoid unpleasant memories. The 
character  may  just  forget  the  bad  experience  that  caused 
the amnesia or they could forget major chunks of time, or 
even everything about themselves. The Keeper may choose 
to reset Cthulhu Mythos to 0 and maximum Sanity to 99 
while  the  amnesia  holds  sway;  the  horror  returns  when 
the  character’s  memories  do,  or  when  they  experience  a 
similarly horrific situation.

Insanity Side-Effects 3: Insanity and 
the Cthulhu Mythos 

What I have seen cannot be true, and I know that this mad-
ness of my own will at most lead only to suffocation when my 
air is gone. The light in the temple is a sheer delusion, and 
I shall die calmly like a German, in the black and forgotten 
depths. This demoniac laughter which I hear as I write comes 
only from my own weakening brain.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Temple

Insanity bought on by non-Mythos stimuli yields no Cthul-
hu Mythos knowledge. However, each time an investigator 
reels  from  Mythos-induced  trauma  (e.g.  seeing  a  Mythos 

163 

chapter 8: sanitymonster, reading a Mythos tome, being affected by a Mythos 
spell), he or she learns more of the Mythos, and this is re-
flected  in  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill.  The  first  instance  of 
Mythos-related insanity always adds 5 points to the Cthulhu 
Mythos skill. Further episodes of Mythos-induced insanity 
(temporary or indefinite) each add 1 point to the skill. 

Harvey Walters finds a manuscript in Crowninshield 
Manor. After comprehending it, he has 3% Cthulhu 
Mythos skill but lost no Sanity points. When he steps 
outside,  Harvey  sees  a  nightgaunt  fly  overhead.  He 
goes  insane,  his  mind  quailing  before  the  unearthly 
manifestation. Since this is Harvey’s first Mythos-re-
lated  insanity,  his  player  must  add  5  percentiles  to 
Harvey’s Cthulhu Mythos skill, raising it to 8%. Har-
vey’s maximum Sanity points drops to 91 (99 minus 
8 Cthulhu Mythos skill).

A Note about Delusions  
and Sanity Point Loss
The  delusion  of  a  sanity-threatening  entity  (e.g.  a 
monster) may cause an investigator the same potential 
Sanity  point  loss  as  the  real  thing.  The  player  has  a 
choice: either accept what is seen as “real” and make 
the appropriate Sanity roll for seeing that monster, or 
make a reality check roll. If the player makes a success-
ful reality check roll and dispels the delusion, no Sanity 
roll needs to be made—there was no monster after all, 
perhaps  just  a  tramp  who  appeared  to  be  a  monster 
in the eyes of the insane investigator. However, if the 
player fails the reality check roll, the insane investigator 
loses