 out the place first to gather more infor-
mation about the cult’s activities.

Having watched the hideout for a couple of days, the 
players have recognized some of the cultists and are now 
certain  that  they  have  the  right  place.  The  investigators 
quietly gain entry and are searching the many rooms of the 
building when they come upon a lone cultist. After a quick 
fight, the cultist is captured, and the investigators decide 
to question him before going any further. The Keeper uses 
this opportunity to give a second hint that the players really 
should avoid entering the cave under the cellar. When the 
players ask the captured cultist what is in the cellar, the 
Keeper replies in the voice of the cultist “Go in the cellar, 
eh? That’s a good idea. Yes, you go down there and find 
the pool! You’ll get just what’s coming to you down there! 
Ha Ha HA!!” The Keeper presents the cultists as mad and 
dangerous, hoping that the players will pick up on the fact 
that whatever is in the pool in the cellar is dangerous.

Ignoring the Keeper’s hints so far, the players tie up the 
cultist and leave him hidden in a closet, and decide to go 
straight to the cellar to check out the pool (no one said that 
the players will listen to the Keeper!). As they explore the 
cellar, one of them discovers stone steps leading down to a 
large hole in the floor. As the investigators look down the 
steps, the Keeper provides a third and final warning, “The 
stone steps look slimy and there’s a foul smell—something 
evil dwells down there. You can hear the water splash, like 
something  huge  was  climbing  out  of  a  pool.  A  hideous 
popping sound carries up the stairs. Whatever’s down there 
doesn’t smell or sound good.”

Whatever the players decide to do next is up to them, 
but the Keeper has now given them three warnings that 
this isn’t going to be a walk in the park. Hopefully the play-
ers are at least prepared and forearmed now—if they have 
any sense they’ll run rather than try to fight the shoggoth!

chapter 10: playing the game210 

Call of Cthulhumay act and function completely normally in everyday situ-
ations, however if they suffer further Sanity point loss, then 
a bout of madness ensues and the character’s madness takes 
hold for the duration of the bout.

Ultimately with the onset of permanent insanity (which 
equates with permanent madness) the player’s control of his 
or her investigator comes to an end.

One  way  to  think  of  Call  of  Cthulhu  is  as  a  struggle 
between  player  and  Keeper  for  control  of  the  investigator. 
The player takes the side of rational and sane behavior, while 
you,  the  Keeper,  are  like  a  little  devil  on  the  investigator’s 
shoulder, constantly pushing the investigator into situations 
that will lead to your gaining control, resulting in madness 
and irrational behavior.

Delusions
Delusions have greater impact if the delusion has some rel-
evance to the investigator. A great way to do this is to keep 
track  of  each  investigator’s  backstory  and  use  the  entries 
as  inspiration  for  delusions.  A  lone  investigator  might  set 
out to explore some old house, only to meet an old friend 
there (from his or her backstory). The whole event may be a 
delusion taking place in the investigator’s home. 

A number of films offer good inspiration for how to use 
delusions  and  madness,  among  them  Twelve  Monkeys,  Bug, 
The  Shining,  The  Lovely  Bones,  Pan’s  Labyrinth,  Fight  Club 
and Mulholland Drive. In these movies, characters struggle to 
differentiate between reality and hallucinations, and we, the 
viewer, are unsure if what we are seeing is real or imaginary.

Scaring the Players