 a room full of 
tarantulas  backfires  as  the  patient  goes  berserk  (possible 
damage to self and to others) and now thinks they are the 
"spider  king"  (the  patient  now  has  a  new  mania  and  has 
lost additional Sanity points—the therapist should make a 
Sanity roll too, as their actions caused this!)

Much like the blind leading the blind, it is possible for 
an  insane  character  to  practice  psychoanalysis.  An  insane 
character who fails a pushed roll could seek to become a cult 
leader, with his or her patients as recruits.

Psychology (10%)
A  perception  skill  common  to  all  humans,  it  allows  the 
user  to  study  an  individual  and  form  an  idea  of  another 
person’s motives and character. The Keeper may choose to 
make concealed Psychology skill rolls on the player’s behalf, 
announcing only the information, true or false, that the user 
gained by employing it.

72 

Call of CthulhuOpposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Psychology can be used to oppose all forms of social inter-
action rolls: Intimidate, Fast Talk, Persuade, and Charm. It 
can also be used to see through someone’s disguise (such as 
when using the Disguise skill).

i  Regular  difficulty:  read  someone’s  intent  or  deter-
mine if the person is lying if their relevant skill (In-
timidate, Fast Talk, Persuade, and Charm) is below 
50%.

i  Hard difficulty: read someone’s intent or determine 
if  the  person  is  lying  if  their  relevant  skill  (Intim-
idate,  Fast  Talk,  Persuade,  and  Charm)  is  between 
50% and 89%.

Pushing examples:  being  very  unsubtle  and  asking  highly 
personal, intimate, or downright direct questions of the tar-
get; immersing yourself in data regarding a specific person 
(the target of your study) in order to think like them and 
understand their motivations.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: you some-
how  reveal  your  own  motivations  to  the  target;  the  target 
is offended by your prying questions or curious stare, and 
refuses  to  speak  with  you  further,  or  takes  action  against 
you (perhaps violence or a call to the police); unknown to 
you, the target is connected with your adversaries, and you 
unwittingly reveal your own agenda to them; spending all 
week locked in your room in order to build the profile has 
left you a physical and mental wreck (penalty die to all rolls 
until you recover).

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she be-
lieves that they hear the target’s evil thoughts, and launches 
a physical attack upon them.

Read Lips (01%) [Uncommon]
This skill allows the inquisitive investigator to listen in on a 
conversation, without requiring them to hear the speakers. 
Line of sight is necessary, and if only one speaker’s lips can be 
seen (the other presumably with their back to the lip reader) 
then only half of the conversation can be deciphered.

Read  Lips  may  also  be  used  to  silently  communicate 
with  another  person  (if  both  are  proficient),  allowing  for 
relatively complex phrasing and meaning.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Depending  on  the  situation,  Read  Lips  is  usually  unop-
posed. If attempting to read the lips of a target who wishes 
to remain hidden or unobserved, the skill may be opposed 
by the Stealth of the target.

i  Regular difficulty: understand the spoken commu-
nication  of  a  person  who  is  in  clear  sight  and  in 
relatively close proximity.

i  Hard  difficulty:  determine  the  spoken  commu