cluse who died an octogenarian bachelor and had lived in 
a rambling colonial house on the outskirts of the town, the 
last direct descendant of a line going back to the founding 
of the town centuries before. His house has proved to be a 
treasure trove of diaries, historical documents, pictures, and 
artifacts that span the history of New England. 

Inventoried first by the legal firm assigned by the Cobb 
family (a well-to-do Providence clan who are distant rela-
tives by marriage and the fortunate inheritors of Hobbhouse 
estate), the papers were passed onto the Miskatonic for more 
professional assessment of their worth and significance, with 
the understanding that this trust may be repaid ultimately 
with the eventual investiture of a collection or the donation 
of certain papers. This has represented quite a coup as the 
promised  prestige  it  would  bring  is  of  significant  value  to 
the university. 

Leiter lobbied heavily for the assessment of the papers to 
come to him. Not surprisingly, he had pressing ulterior mo-

364 

Call of Cthulhutives for securing the work, as his money was running out 
and some less than pleasant creditors had been threatening 
to  take  matters  of  repayment  into  their  own  hands.  The 
papers quickly proved a godsend in this regard—or so he 
thought—for among them he discovered a bound sheaf of 
previously unknown correspondence and evidentiary ma-
terials from the Arkham Witch Trials of the 1690s—worth 
a small fortune to the right buyer. Leiter believed the dusty 
old documents dealt with nothing more than an outland-
ish period of hysteria and superstition in New England’s 
history; however he couldn’t have been more wrong and 
was to pay for his mistake with his life. 

As soon as he could lay his hands on the Witch Trial 
Papers, Leiter put the word out to potential secret buyers 
and  with  the  help  of  his  long-time  accomplice—a  failed 
ex-student and fine artist named Cecil Hunter—set about 
trying  to  forge  the  more  complex  portion  of  the  papers. 
This proved to be the start of his problems as the recep-
tion  to  his  offer  among  his  contacts  was  almost  univer-
sally  poor,  except  for  solicitations  from  would-be  clients 
he hadn’t bargained for and whose reputations frightened 
him. Leiter found himself at the center of a bidding war 
between  several  clients.  His  home  was  broken  into  and 
ransacked,  and  he  became  convinced  that  he  was  being 
followed. Little did Leiter know, by the separation of the 
papers and the attempt to copy them, the forces slumber-
ing in the ink would be unleashed.

Subject to a sudden spate of horrific nightmares, and 
convinced  his  life  was  in  danger,  he  became  determined 
to  be  rid  of  the  problem  as  soon  as  possible.  Leiter  hit 
upon  the  plan  of  selling  duplicates  to  several  parties  at 
once,  and  so  assigned  Hunter  the  task  of  swiftly  forging 
several sets of complicated diagrams that formed part of 
the  papers—despite  Hunter’s  own  increasing  misgivings. 
Shortly afterwards, Cecil Hunter went mad and the rest of 
the papers went missing.

Leiter,  his  life  spiraling  out  of  control,  hounded  and 
pursued now by individuals he could no longer even hope 
to appease, made hurried arrangements to skip town with 
whatever  wealth  he  could  muster,  leaving  the  name  and 
career he had built behind him. On the evening of the 23rd 
September, Leiter returned to his faculty office in the Mis-
katonic University to retrieve what items of value he could. 
