ping of Gorgoroth
Cost: 6+ magic points; 5 POW; 2D6 Sanity points
Casting time: 1D6+4 minutes

Allows  the  caster  to  change  his  or  her  physical  form.  The 
sorcerer  can  change  to  any  shape  and  appearance,  though 
retaining  personal  abilities.  The  form  is  fleshly  but  it  can 

246 

Call of Cthulhuappear to be made of stone, wood, a rug, etc. Once changed 
into a new shape, the caster has the mobility of that shape. 
The caster’s STR, CON, INT, POW and DEX do not change. 
If  emulating  a  person,  the  sorcerer’s  Appearance  becomes 
that of the individual emulated. The caster can take on only 
a known form.

The caster invokes Nyarlathotep and repeats the phrases 
of  the  spell  while  expending  6  magic  points  and  an  addi-
tional magic point for each 5 points of SIZ to be gained or 
lost in the body warping. Only one alteration per casting is 
possible and the effect is permanent until the spell is recast 
to change back again. This spell cannot be cast on another 
being.

Alternative names:  Mastery  of  the  Flesh,  Skin Walking, 

The Black Pharaoh’s Touch.

Deeper Version
If imitating an individual, the caster becomes a replica 
of  that  person,  including  voice  and  speech  patterns. 
The caster does not need to repeat the spell to undo the 
warping—a simple verbal phrase is all that is required.

Brew Space-Mead
A wonderfully golden liquid, which he kept in a carafe in his 
desk and served in tiny Belgian liqueur glasses in such small 
amounts that it seemed futile even to raise it to one’s lips—
and yet its bouquet and its taste…outdid even the oldest 
Chianti and the best Chateau Yquem to such an extent that 
to mention them in the same breath was to do injustice to the 
professor’s brew. Fiery though it was, it had the additional 
effect of making me drowsy…
—August Derleth, The House on Curwen Street

Cost:  20  magic  points  per  dose;  plus  variable  additional 
Magic and Sanity points
Casting time: Many days

This  spell  creates  a  magical  drink  that  allows  a  human  to 
withstand journeys through the vacuum and vicissitudes of 
space. For all such journeys, the effectiveness of space-mead 
also requires the expenditure of an equal number of magic 
points  and  Sanity  points,  commensurate  to  the  journey’s 
distance in light years by the traveller taking the drug (see 
Table XII: Space Mead Effectiveness).

Brewing the drink and taking the journey represent sepa-
rate stages for the caster/user. Different types of space-mead 
exist,  each  with  the  same  effects  but  all  of  them  requiring 
different ingredients.

Brewing  space-mead  requires  five  special  ingredients 
to be chosen by the Keeper and requires at least a week of 
brewing time. Once the mead is foaming and bubbling, the 
caster must sacrifice 20 magic points per dose into the brew. 

Breath of the Deep
Cost: 8 magic points; 1D6 Sanity 
points
Casting time: 1 round

The  target’s  lungs  fill  with  sea-
water,  potentially  causing  an 
unpleasant death by drowning. 

The caster must be able to see 
the target. After mentally intoning 
the spell for a round, for the spell 
to take effect the caster must win 
an  opposed  POW  roll  with  the 
target. If the caster wins the target 
begins  to  drown—the  target  falls 
to  the  floor,  choking