 regard-
less of whether they have any movement actions remaining. 
Large monsters or creatures might attack a vehicle aiming 
to inflict damage or to use a fighting maneuver to push, tip or 
even pick up and throw a vehicle (see Builds, page 33).

Vehicles may engage in combat using the regular combat 
rules,  substituting  Drive  Auto  skill  for  both  Fighting  and 
Dodge skills. Treat the vehicle as a weapon that inflicts 1D10 
damage per point of build. Each full 10 hit points of damage 
decreases a vehicle’s build by one point (round down); any 
remaining damage below 10 points is ignored. Whenever a 
vehicle is used to inflict damage, it also suffers an amount of 
damage equal to half (round down) of that which it delivers, 
but  never  enough  to  cause  it  to  lose  a  greater  amount  of 
build points than the target which it hit originally possessed. 

A car might do 50 (5D10) points of damage to a light 
motorcycle,  and  therefore  the  car  would  suffer  25 
points of damage itself (enough to cause a damage of 
2 Build points), but a light motorcycle only has Build 
1, so the damage to the car is limited to 1 build point.

Using Fighting Maneuvers in a Chase
If  a  character  or  vehicle  seeks  to  trip,  push,  or  otherwise 
cause  their  opponent  to  lose  control,  this  can  be  achieved 
with  a  fighting  maneuver.  A  successful  fighting  maneuver 
causes the same outcome as failing a skill roll for a hazard: 
1D3  movement  actions  are  lost  and,  if  appropriate  to  the 
situation, an amount of damage is selected from Table III: 
Other Forms of Damage for characters, or Table VI: Vehic-
ular Collisions for vehicles. Alternatively, if a character has a 
specific goal he or she wishes to set for a fighting maneuver, 
this can be done in the way it would in regular combat (see 
Fighting Maneuvers, page 105).

A  fighting  maneuver  can  be  made  against  a  vehicle  to 
push  it  off  the  road  or  cause  a  loss  of  control.  The  same 
limitations  regarding  build  apply:  if  a  vehicle  challenges 
another vehicle that is 1 build larger that itself, 1 penalty die 
is applied to the attack roll. If the target vehicle is 2 build 
points larger, 2 penalty dice are applied. If the target vehicle 
is 3 build points larger, the maneuver is impossible, as the 
size difference is too great.

At the start of the round, Harvey is in the same loca-
tion as the angry farmer and is trying to climb a fence 
to escape. 
Harvey’s turn:

Harvey fails his Climb roll. The Keeper does not 
inflict any negative outcome; instead he decides that 
the farmer’s attack will suffice. 
Farmer’s turn:

The farmer lunges at Harvey. In response, Harvey 
attempts a fighting maneuver to throw the farmer over 
the fence, planning to run the other way afterwards. 
Both have Build 0 and so Harvey does not take any 
additional  penalty  dice.  The  farmer  rolls  a  Failure, 
but Harvey rolls a Regular success and hurls the farm-
er  clean  over  the  fence!  As  a  result  of  the  successful 
fighting maneuver against him, a skill roll must then 
be made for the farmer as if encountering a hazard. 
The  Keeper  chooses  DEX  as  the  most  appropriate 
attribute to test whether the farmer lands on his feet 
or his back. The DEX roll is failed; the farmer suffers 
a “minor injury” for 3 (1D3) points of damage, and 
1 (1D3) from his movement action. The farmer has 
landed  on  his  back 