 wholly detestable 
demeanor, provoking comment and shock everywhere. 

APP may be useful in social encounters or when trying 

to make a good impression. 

INT (Intelligence): Roll 2D6+6 and multiply 
by 5 to generate an Intelligence characteristic. 

Intelligence represents how well investigators learn, remem-
ber,  analyze  information  and  solve  complex  puzzles.  An 
investigator with zero INT is a babbling, drooling idiot. 

Intelligence determines the number of Personal Interest 
skill points (multiply INT × 2) allotted to a new investigator 
(see Personal Interests page 36). INT also acts as the value 
for  both  Idea  rolls  and  Intelligence  rolls  (see  Chapter  5: 
Game System).

If the amount of INT seems to contradict another char-
acteristic, that’s another chance for roleplaying and further 
defining your investigator. For example, an investigator with 
high  EDU  and  low  INT  might  be  a  pedantic  teacher  or  a 
sideshow performer, someone who knows facts but not their 
meanings. Conversely, high INT and low EDU might mean 
ignorance—such as an uneducated farm boy, new to the Big 
City—however this person would not be dull-witted. 

POW (Power): Roll 3D6 and multiply by 5 to 
generate a Power characteristic. 

Power indicates force of will; the higher the POW, the higher 
the  aptitude  for,  and  resistance  to,  magic.  An  investigator 
with  zero  POW  is  zombie-like  and  without  "purpose,"  as 
well as being unable to use magic. Unless stated otherwise, 
POW that is lost during the game is lost permanently.  

Sanity points (SAN) begin the game equal to the char-
acter’s  POW.  Sanity  points  are  covered  in  more  detail  in 
Chapter 8: Sanity.

POW dictates the character’s number of "magic points," 
which,  unlike  POW,  can  be  spent  and  regenerated  during 
play. Magic points are equal to one-fifth of POW (see Chap-
ter 10: Magic).

The POW of ordinary characters and investigators rarely 
changes. However, those adroit in the mysteries of the magic 
of the Cthulhu Mythos may be able to increase their person-
al POW. 

EDU (Education): Roll 2D6+6 and multiply by 
5 to generate an Education characteristic.

Education is a measure of the formal and factual knowledge 
possessed by the investigator, as well as indicating the time 
the investigator has spent in full-time education. EDU mea-
sures retained information, not the intelligent application of 
that information (see Intelligence). An investigator without 
EDU would be like a newborn baby or an amnesiac—with-
out  knowledge  of  the  world,  probably  very  curious  and 
credulous. 

An EDU of 60 suggests the investigator is a high school grad-
uate, while a score of around 70 indicates a person with some 
college years. Those with an EDU greater than 80 have most like-
ly conducted graduate level work and have a degree, as expected 
of a person who has been to a university of some kind. Note that 
sometimes a person with a high Education may not necessarily 
be schooled in the traditional sense, but rather may be self-taught 
and possess a highly studious and observant nature. 

31 

chapter 3: CREATING INVESTIGATORSEDU is a factor in determining how many Occupational 
skill points (see Occupation Skills page 36) an investigator 
begins with, and represents the investigator’s starting per-
centage for the Own Language skill (see page 67). EDU is 
also used when making Know rolls (see Chapter 5: Game 
System).

Note: From this point forward, any references to a char-
acteristic are to the full value (dice roll multiplied by five). 
Any adjustments are made to that value. 

Luck
When creating an investigator roll 