 
unable to identify the metal. It is not a metal of Earth-
ly  origin  (Sanity  roll,  0/1  SAN  loss  for  those  who 
make their Science (Chemistry or Biology) roll).
G   A  diary,  with  the  name  of  Joseph  Turner  inscribed 
inside the front cover, which details his backstory(see 
page 361). Most of it is in fairly untidy handwriting 
and will take some time to be read. However, flicking 
through the book, the investigators can get a general 
idea of the events from occasional readable lines.

357 

chapter 15: scenariosroll, whichever is lowest. If successful, the lid can be opened 
from the inside or outside. If this roll is pushed, a suggested 
consequence of failure is that the character passes out or has 
a Dream-vision sent from Gla'aki. 

Given  that  they  won’t  leave  Turner’s  cabin  during  the 
day, August and Jacob won’t pursue the investigators beyond 
the threshold should they flee the cabin. They will wait for 
the cover of darkness to begin any pursuit. 

Day 3: The Lake
Following the older trail further still, it comes to the edge of 
the  black  and  stagnant  lake  that  the  investigators  have  seen 
in  their  dreams.  Here,  the  five  surviving  artists  have  been 
strapped to poles about five meters in from the shore of the 
lake. In the evening of Day 2 they were bought here and offered 
to Gla'aki, who rose from the lake and pierced each one in the 
chest with a two-foot, metallic spine; blood and viscera cover 
the unfortunate painters. Call for Sanity rolls, with 1/1D6 SAN 
loss. Each artist should be dead, however if the investigators get 
close enough they realize that they are still moving—triggering 
another Sanity roll, with 1/1D4 SAN loss. 

Despite their minds being broken by their experiences, 
the  artists  will  relay  their  story  if  the  investigators  untie 
them. Read aloud or paraphrase the following:

“They took us in the night from our camp… Walking 
corpses… They took us to the dig site where the others 
are being held. There’s a boy and a man, and a girl. 
One of us got away… The dead are trying to lift some-
thing out of a pit. They are using tools and dynamite. 
Something terrible is in the water. It’s in us, spreading 
like a sickness. I can feel it burning away my soul. KILL 
US! REMOVE THE SPINES! PLEASE!” 

Removing the spines from their chests frees them from 
their  pain  and  they  each  die  with  a  scream  that  may  well 

attract attention. Call for a group Luck roll. Failure means 
that James Stanton and Dean Walters come from the nearby 
dig site to investigate. 

If the investigators stay to watch what happens then they 
need to make Stealth rolls to avoid detection. The undead 
servants  will  attempt  to  overpower  the  investigators  and 
drag them to the hut (see Capturing the Investigators) if 
they spot them. If the investigators removed spines from any 
of the captives, the servants will carelessly discard the corps-
es  and  tie  any  captured  investigators  to  the  vacant  poles. 
Escaping  these  bonds  requires  an  Hard  STR  or  DEX  roll. 
If the roll is failed, the player may push the roll. Remember 
the player must justify the pushed roll. One consequence of 
failure might be that the investigator rocks the pole so much 
that it falls over, landing the investigator face down in the 
water.  Alternatively  they  pass  out  and  awaken  at  night  as 
Gla'aki appears.

If they are still bound there when night falls, Turner and 
his gang come to the lake to call forth Gla'aki and offer up 
the  investigators 