 
or fight back. 

T  If the character chooses to fight back, use the target’s 
Fighting skill to oppose the attacker’s Fighting skill. 
T  If  the  character  chooses  to  dodge,  use  the  target’s 
Dodge skill to oppose the attacker’s Fighting skill.
T  If  the  target  is  neither  fighting  back  nor  dodging, 

refer to surprise attacks on page 106.

Resolving a Fighting Attack Made 
Against a Target That is Fighting Back
Both sides roll percentile dice and compare the results with 
their  own  Fighting  skill.  The  side  with  the  better  level  of 
success avoids being harmed, and inflicts damage on their 
opponent (see Determining Damage, nearby). If both sides 
achieve  the  same  level  of  success,  the  character  initiating 
the attack hits the character that is fighting back, inflicting 
damage. 

T  If the attacker achieves a higher level of success, they 

deal damage to their target.

T  If the defender achieves a higher level of success, he 
or she has successfully blocked, parried or avoided 
the  attacker’s  blows  and  simultaneously  landed  a 
blow  of  their  own  upon  their  attacker,  inflicting 
damage.

T  In the case of a draw, the attacker wins (when their 

opponent is fighting back).
T  If both fail, no damage is inflicted.

Harvey  has  been  cornered  by  an  angry  cultist,  and 
both are attempting to hurt one another. The cultist 
has  a  DEX  of  55  and  so  does  Harvey.  However  the 
cultist’s Fighting (Brawling) skill is 70%, which is far 
higher than Harvey’s, so the cultist acts first.

Resolving a Fighting Attack Made 
Against a Target That is Dodging
The attacker and the target (who is trying to dodge) make 
an  opposed  roll  using  their  Fighting  skill  and  Dodge  skill 
respectively.  If  the  attacker  gains  a  higher  level  of  success, 
the attack is successful and the attacker inflicts damage on 
the  loser  (see  Determining  Damage,  below).  Otherwise 
the attack is dodged and no damage is dealt. If both sides 
achieve the same level of success, the character dodging wins 
and evades the attack.

T  If the attacker achieves a higher level of success, they 

deal damage.

T  If  the  defender  achieves  a  higher  level  of  success, 
they have dodged the attack and take no damage.
T  In the case of a draw, the defender wins (when the 

defender is dodging).

T  If both fail, no damage is inflicted.

Determining Damage
The amount of damage that an attack delivers is indicated 
on  Table  XVII:  Weapons  (pages  401-405).  Note  that  the 
damage for unarmed human attacks is 1D3 (e.g. punching 
and kicking).

Extreme Damage and Impales

Greater damage is inflicted if the attacker gains an Extreme 
level of success in their attack. This only occurs if the attack 
is made on a character’s turn in the DEX order, not when 
fighting back: each character gets one moment in the spot-
light each round, and this is their opportunity to make an 
outstanding attack. 

If  the  attacker  achieves  an  Extreme  success  with  a 
non-impaling  weapon  (for  example,  blunt  weapons,  such 
as a fist, kick, or club), then they have hit a weak spot and 
caused maximum damage (plus maximum damage bonus, 
if any).

If the attacker achieves an Extreme level of success with 
a  penetrating  weapon  (such  as  a  blade  or  bullet)  then  an 
impale  has  been  inflicted.  This  means  that  the  weapon  or 
bullet ch