 they can move 
aside and allow other investigators to attempt it (up 
to two at a time). Each attempt to administer first aid 
takes time, and this may be crucial if the patient is at 
death’s door.

Another example: The players wish to interrogate 
a  cultist,  and  decide  to  use  the  classic  good  cop,  bad 
cop routine. One player uses Intimidate  and another 
uses Charm. They take it in turns to play their roles, 
each rolling dice to test if the cultist cracks. Once the 
investigators have each made one dice roll, they must 
either give up, or one of them must push the roll. 

Physical Human Limits
The  investigators  are  only  human,  and  there  are  limits  to 
what they can achieve physically. As has already been stated, 
the difficulty level of a roll is Extreme when opposed by a 
characteristic of 90 or above. The upper limit of what can be 
faced with an Extreme success is 100 + the investigator’s skill 
or  characteristic.  Anything  beyond  this  is  impossible  for 
that character, and no dice roll is allowed. Thus no human 
can win a test of STR versus a large monster such as a Dark 
Young (STR 220).

The  only  way  to  exceed  human  limits  is  for  multiple 
investigators  to  combine  their  efforts.  One  or  more  inves-
tigators’  characteristics  are  deducted  from  the  opponent’s 
characteristic  to  reduce  it  to  a  level  against  which  other 
investigators may make a skill roll. To do this, starting with 
the lowest, deduct each investigator’s characteristic value in 

Cecil’s fellow investigator, Rodger, is trapped beneath 
a  fallen  rafter.  The  Keeper  rules  that  the  rafter  has 
a  SIZ  of  150.  Cecil’s  STR  is  only  40,  which  is  more 
than 100 below the rafter’s SIZ, making it impossible 
for him to lift it on his own, according to the rule on 
physical human limits.

Luckily, Martin (STR 45) is there to help. Cecil’s 
STR is lowest, so it is subtracted first from the rafter’s 
SIZ, leaving the rafter’s SIZ at 110 (150–40). This is 
over 90, but less than 100 points above Martin’s STR, 
so he can attempt a skill roll to move the rafter, requir-
ing an Extreme success. Martin fails this roll.

Cecil has STR 40; the most he can attempt to lift 

is SIZ 140.

Martin has STR 45; the most he can attempt to 

lift is SIZ 145.

At that moment the rest of the group arrive. There 
are now five investigators attempting to lift the rafter: 
Cecil (STR 40), Harvey (STR 20), Martin (STR 45), 
Helen (STR 60) and Belinda (STR 75). 

Harvey has STR 20; the most he can attempt to 

lift is SIZ 120.

Helen has STR 60; the most she can attempt to lift 

is SIZ 160.

Belinda has STR 75; the most she can attempt to 

lift is SIZ 175.

Subtracting  Harvey’s  STR  from  the  rafter  leaves 
SIZ  130;  deducting  Cecil’s  STR  then  leaves  SIZ  90; 
finally, subtracting Martin’s STR leaves SIZ 45. This 
has reduced the difficulty level to Regular. The Keeper 
rules  that  they  can  all  lay  hands  on  the  rafter  and 
attempt  the  lift,  but  since  one  attempt  has  already 
been made, that this will constitute a pushed skill roll. 
Neither Helen’s nor Belinda’s STRs have been factored 
in yet, so they are both able