 institution; he or she may 
convince the institution’s staff to bring notice of his or her 
restored mental balance before the awarding court and that 
court takes upon itself the guardianship  and grants his or 
her freedom; or he or she can simply climb over the institu-
tion’s wall and run for his or her life.

Mental Health  
Dangerousness Criteria 
When a person seems to be at risk of self-harm or for harm 
to others, and apparently cannot care for him- or herself, a 
medical  doctor  can  certify  that  the  individual  should  un-
dergo psychiatric assessment and/or become an involuntary 
patient.  With  this  affirmation,  often  of  a  comprehensive 
nature, the state can hold an individual for observation and 
potentially for treatment. The duration of institutionaliza-
tion varies by state, but the term is rarely less than 60 game 
days for a legal assessment, and frequently up to 180 days. 

This fate is most likely for an investigator who attempts 
bodily assault or murder without apparent motive, or who 
intelligently  shams  mental  disturbance  to  avoid  serious 
criminal charges. The doctor also can revoke the capacity to 
manage personal finances, the right to drive an automobile, 
the right to make treatment decisions, and so on.

Dr. Shiny

166 

Call of CthulhuIncreasing Current  
Sanity Points 
In addition to the care listed above, there are four ways to 
raise an investigator’s current Sanity points.

1.  Keeper  award:  at  the  end  of  a  successful  scenario  or 
campaign chapter, Keepers may specify dice rolls to increase 
investigators’  current  Sanity  points.  Keeper  award  rolls  are 
the  same  for  all  participants,  but  are  rolled  individually  by 
players. Such rewards should be proportional to the danger 
the group faced. However, if the investigators were cowardly, 
brutal, or murderous, the Keeper may opt to reduce or remove 
the reward, especially if they wish to enforce a moral agenda.

Harvey uses his knowledge of the Cthulhu Mythos to 
defeat the ghouls, and his adventure ends. The Keeper 
gives a Sanity point reward of 1D6.

2. Increasing a Skill to 90%:  award 2D6 Sanity points when 
a character increases a skill to 90%. This reward represents 
the discipline and self-esteem gained in mastering a skill.

3.  Psychotherapy:  intensive  psychoanalysis  can  return 
Sanity points to an investigator patient. Make a 1D100 roll 
against the analyst or doctor’s Psychoanalysis skill once per 
month.  If  the  roll  succeeds,  the  patient  gains  1D3  Sanity 
points. If the roll fails, add no points. If the roll is fumbled 
then  the  patient  loses  1D6  Sanity  points,  and  treatment 

by  that  analyst  concludes—there  has  been  some  sort  of 
serious incident or dramatic setback in the therapy, and the 
relationship between patient and therapist has broken down 
beyond saving.

In the game, psychoanalysis alone does not speed recov-
ery from insanity; however, it can strengthen the investiga-
tor by increasing Sanity points, providing a larger reserve for 
the active days to come. Recovery is independent of Sanity 
points.  The  use  of  psychoanalysis  is  different  in  the  game 
world than in the real world. In the real world, psychoanal-
ysis will not work against the symptoms of schizophrenia, 
psychotic  disorders,  bipolar  disorders  (manic  depression) 
or  severe  depression.  Psychoanalysis  is  the  game’s  equiva-
lent of mental first aid and is a world removed from real-life 
medical care for mental illness. 

While in game terms, temporary and indefinite insanity 
can be cured, permanent insanity is impervious to psycho-
analysis. Participation is impossible when the investigator’s 
mind is in such dis