  blankets  the  target 
site  with  fire,  incinerating  an  area  20 
yards  across.  Investigators  within  the 
area  must  attempt  an  Extreme  CON 
roll  (rolling  equal  to  or  below  one-fifth 
of  their  CON):  a  failed  roll  indicates 
incineration. A success indicates 1D10 
hit point loss. Body armor is of no help 
against  this  attack,  but  an  intervening 
wall or embankment would be.

Fighting 40% (20/8), damage 1D6 + half dam-

age bonus 

Flame  Burst  Targets  must  make  an  Extreme 

CON roll, special (see above) 

Armor:  14  points  of  armor.  Weapons  that  come 
into contact with Cthugha are destroyed. 

Spells: All spells concerning entities of flame and itself. 
Sanity Loss: 1D3/1D20 Sanity points to see Cthugha.

Cthugha

Although no record remains, the Great Fire of London 
in 1666 is believed in some circles to have started due 
to  an  unwise  ritual  devotion  to  Cthugha  that  took 
place in the cellars of a baker in Pudding Lane. Those 
involved summoned a power far greater than they had 
anticipated, and a legion of flame vampires descended 
in advance of the summoning’s climax. Quickly over-
come, the ritual’s participants fled before the working 
could be undone or contained, and thus within hours 
the entire city was aflame.

Great Cthulhu

A monster of vaguely anthropoid outline, but with an 

octopus-like head whose face was a mass of feelers, 
a scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws 
on hind and fore feet, and long, narrow wings 
behind. This thing…was of a somewhat bloated 
corpulence…It lumbered slobberingly into sight 
and gropingly squeezed its gelatinous green 
immensity through the black doorway… 

A mountain walked or stumbled.

— H.P. Lovecraft, The Call of Cthulhu

Great  Cthulhu’s  body  form  is  not  fixed.  He  can  warp  and 
modify  it  at  will,  extending  new  limbs,  retracting  old  ones, 
greatly increasing his wings’ area and reducing his body’s size 
to enable flight, or elongating a single limb or tentacle to enable 
it to writhe through yards of corridor. However, his overall 
shape  is  tied  to  the  form  described.  Thus  he  might 
expand  or  contract  his  wings,  but  would  never 
completely  absorb  them. All  of  his  forms  are 
recognizable as caricatures of Cthulhu.

Cthulhu dwells in the corpse city of black 
R’lyeh,  sunken  deep  beneath  the  surface  of 
the Pacific. He is in a living death while there, 

315 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsThe Call of Cthulhu
In the sunken abysmal city of R’lyeh, Cthulhu dreams, 
and such dreams may affect the dreams of men. Cer-
tain sensitive humans have, over the centuries, heard 
this dream call. Often artistic sensibilities are affected, 
causing  the  recipient  to  awake  from  slumber  and  be 
driven to produce nightmarish canvases or sculptures; 
finding no rest until their corrupted works of art have 
been  completed.  Others,  finding  no  vent  for  their 
emotions and dream insights, follow a darker path to 
absolute madness and, sometimes, suicide.

Some  cultists  believe  the  recipients  of  Cthulhu’s 
call  are  honored  and  should  be  held  in  high  regard, 
for they may well speak the