 formalized  education  and 
training, although a well-read amateur scientist may also be 
a possibility. Understanding and scope is limited by the era 

73 

chapter 4: skills74 

Call of Cthulhuof play. You may spend skill points to purchase any skill spe-
cialization. The generic Science skill cannot be purchased.

Each specialty covers a particular discipline and the list 
given is not exhaustive. Many specialties cross and overlap 
in knowledge, for example Mathematics and Cryptography, 
Botany  and  Biology,  Chemistry  and  Pharmacy.  When  a 
character does not have the obvious discipline specialty, they 
may roll against an allied specialty with the level of difficulty 
increased (or penalty die) at the Keeper’s discretion. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: conducting an experiment; being 
aware of current scientific theory within your field 
of specialty: working with proper equipment.
i  Hard difficulty: conducting a particularly demanding 
experiment;  deciphering  disorganized/partial  scien-
tific records; working with improvised equipment.

Pushing examples: taking more time for study; conducting 
further research (perhaps in a better-equipped laboratory); 
consulting another expert; taking risks.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the exper-
iment  goes  completely  awry,  causing  unforeseen  damage 
(explosion,  fire,  electrical  shock,  expulsion  to  the  sixth 
dimension,  etc.);  you  incorrectly  prepare  the  formulae  for 
the magical powder, with disastrous results.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
begins  to  explore  an  aspect  of  weird  science  related  to 
their  specialization.  This  may  ultimately  lead  to  actual 
developments akin to those of Crawford Tillinghast (from 
Lovecraft’s story From Beyond).

Science Specializations:

Astronomy (01%): The user knows how to find out which 
stars and planets are overhead at a particular day or hour of 
the day or night, when eclipses and meteor showers occur, 
and  the  names  of  important  stars.  The  skill  also  provides 
knowledge  of  current  perceptions  about  life  on  other 
worlds,  the  existence  or  the  formation  of  galaxies,  and  so 
on. An academic might be able to calculate orbits, discuss 
stellar life cycles, and (in the modern day), have knowledge 
of infrared astronomy or long-baseline interferometry. 

Biology (01%): The study of life and living organisms, in-
cluding cytology, ecology, genetics, histology, microbiology, 
physiology, and so on. With this skill one might develop a 
vaccine against some hideous Mythos bacterium, isolate the 
hallucinogenic properties of some jungle plant, or perform 
analysis of blood and/or organic matter.

Botany  (01%):  The  study  of  plant  life,  including  classifica-
tion  of  species,  structure,  growth,  reproduction,  chemical 
properties, evolutionary principles, diseases, and microscopy. 
Sub-disciplines of botany include agronomy, forestry, horti-
culture, and paleobotany. With this skill one might identify 
the  properties  of  a  particular  plant  (whether  poisonous, 
edible, or psychotropic for example) and its particular uses. 

Chemistry  (01%):  A  study  of  the  composition  of  sub-
stances,  the  effects  of  temperature,  energy,  and  pressure 
upon  them,  as  well  as  how  they  affect  one  another.  With 
chemistry,  one  might  create  or  extract  complex  chemical 
compounds,  including  simple  explosives,  poisons,  gases, 
and  acids,  requiring  at  least  a  day  or  so  with  the  proper 
equipment  and  chemicals