 one other 
wounded survivor (Eugene Clayton) fled back into the for-
est. Harris’ plan is to head back to the cabin where Jane is 
being  held.  From  there  maybe  he  can  make  a  run  for  the 
Canadian border with Dobbs and Clayton.

Meanwhile, Strong’s team were conducting their survey. 
Unfortunately  for  them,  they  strayed  a  little  too  close  to 
Gla'aki’s  lake  and  fell  fully  under  its  control,  joining  the 
Turner gang as undead servants. With more undead man-
power, as well as the team’s modern equipment, the goal of 
unearthing the crystal and delivering it to their god in the 
lake is within sight. 

347 

chapter 15: scenariosDramatis Personae

Lucas Strong: Local bigwig and father to the kidnapped girl.

Jane Strong: Kidnapped girl, age 16.

Kidnappers: A 3-man team; Eugene Clayton, Sidney Harris, 
and Christopher Dobbs. 

Strong’s  Survey  team:  James  Stanton,  Dean  Walters,  Carl 
White, and Richard Gibson. Sent to look for mineral depos-
its. Have become servants of Gla'aki.

Hunters: Brian and Arthur Hall, Alistair and George Law-
son (two father and son teams); innocent hunters lost in the 
forest, caught up in events they do not understand.

Artists:  A  group  of  artists  on  a  field  trip,  camping  in  the 
woods. They are assaulted by, and destined to join, the ser-
vants of Gla'aki.

Servants of Gla'aki: Joseph Turner and his gang of civil war 
deserters  (August,  Jacob, Vincent,  and  Louis).  Deep  in  the 
forest they seek to sacrifice innocent people to Gla'aki and 
unearth a buried crystal.

The Thing in the Lake: A  manifestation  of  the  Great  Old 
One, Gla'aki, which seeks to use its influence to lead its ser-
vants to seek out and destroy a fragment of its crystal prison.

Timeline of Events
This is a timeline of the major events, granting the Keeper 
a frame of reference if players forge their own path through 
the scenario.

Day 0: Friday, June 19th 1925

Kidnappers: After the firefight on the edge of the forest, Sid-
ney Harris runs back into the forest with Eugene Clayton. 
The two of them don't get far that night and take refuge in 
one of the many deserted cabins throughout the forest.

Servants  of  Gla'aki:  Towards  the  end  of  the  night,  in  the 
forest near the lake, the servants of Gla'aki raid the Artists’ 
camp, having been told by their god that there are intruders 
in the nearby area.

Artists  and  Hunters:  The  artists,  along  with  two  hunters 
(Brian and Arthur Hall), are captured, taken to the dig site 
by the servants of Gla'aki and locked in Hut 4 to await their 
conversion.  One  of  the  artists  escapes,  and  though  fatally 
wounded,  and  begins  to  make  his  way  back  towards  Ben-
nington to seek help.

Day 1: Saturday, June 20th 1925

Investigators: Play starts with the investigators arriving at 
the town meeting.

Kidnappers:  Sidney  Harris  makes  it  over  halfway  back  to 
the  hideout  where  Dobbs  holds  the  girl.  Eugene  Clayton 
is injured, covering only half the distance Harris is able to, 
and that night shoots at one of the wandering servants of 
Gla'aki.

Servants  of  Gla'aki:  During  the  night,  the  servants  of 
Gla'aki raid the hideout where Jane Strong is held, Christo-
pher Dobbs, who is holding her