1D3  Sanity  points  and  5 
Magic points—reduced to 4 Magic points by the Keeper 
because it is being cast in a moonlit graveyard. Mat-
thew has already paid the cost twice: once for the first 
attempt and once for the pushed roll immediately after 
(leaving him 5 Magic points). Now he must pay more. 
A 4 is rolled on the 1D6 multiplier, so Matthew must 
pay 16 Magic points (4 MP × 4 = 16) and 9 Sanity 
points (4D3), as the Mythos power burns through him. 
The  Keeper  describes  a  sound  like  thunder  as  a 
nearby  gravestone  explodes,  showering  Matthew  in 
shards of stone (linking events in the story to the phys-
ical  damage  inflicted  by  the  rules).  Matthew  must 
spend  16  Magic  points.  He  has  5  Magic  Points  left; 
these are spent and he still owes 11, which must come 
from his hit points. Luckily, Matthew has 13 hit points 
and  was  previously  uninjured.  The  damage  reduces 
Matthew to 2 hit points. Matthew lost over half his hit 
points in one blow (a major wound) and must make a 
CON roll to remain conscious. When he recovers, the 
Sanity  point  loss  will  have  resulted  in  insanity.  The 
Keeper amends two of his background entries, one for 
the wound and one for the insanity.

As  the  dust  settles,  Matthew’s  friend  may  notice 
the pale humanoid figure crouching behind the rem-
nants  of  the  sundered  gravestone.  The  spell  worked 
(as it must when the casting roll is pushed)—time for 
a Sanity roll!

4:  The caster’s hand is withered and burnt.
5:  The caster ages unnaturally (+2D10 years and apply 

characteristic modifiers, see Age, page 32).

6:  Powerful  or  numerous  Mythos  entities  appear,  at-
tacking all those nearby, starting with the caster!
7:  The caster or everyone nearby are sucked to a dis-

tant time or place.

8:  Mythos deity is accidentally called.
When  hit  points  are  lost  as  a  result  of  overspending 
Magic points, the Keeper should narrate the physical harm 
as a part of the physical consequence of the casting. 

Evidence of Spells Being Cast
The  damage  done  by  a  spell  is  probably  obvious.  A  visible 
manifestation of a spell being cast may not be so apparent. If 
it  is,  one  might  spot  a  peculiar  hand  gesture  or  body  move-
ment,  or  notice  some  unusual  item  or  necessary  ingredient. 
In  themselves,  such  effects  will  begin  to  establish  a  tone  for 
Mythos magic, so Keepers are cautioned to keep such effects 
low-key. However, the effects could be wide-ranging, from hid-

178 

Call of Cthulhueous roars from beyond, gouts of fire, lines of electrical force, 
pale nimbuses and auroras of various colors, to the rushing of 
winds, raised hackles, ionized air, prickly sensations, the stench 
of  sulfur,  howling  and  hissing  animals,  murmuring  voices, 
alarming moans, or whatever the Keeper thinks fitting.

Disrupted Spell Casting
The  casting  of  a  spell  will  be  disrupted  if  the  caster  is  sig-
nificantly distracted (physically struck or shot, for example) 
during its casting.. The Keeper may consult the charts for the 
consequences  of  failing  a  pushed  casting  roll  (see  previous 
page) for inspiration on what might happen. The caster of a 
failed spell casting must still pay the Sanity point