 You can see all this because a faint green phos-
phorescence has been traipsed over most of the room. Please 
make a Sanity roll for Jake.

CATHY: Oops, I failed.

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Okay,  Jake  loses  1D6  Sanity.  (Garrie 
rolls  a  4  on  a  1D6).  Jake  loses  4  Sanity  points—he  turns 
green, utters a scream and then throws up at the gruesome 
sight. The rest of you hear Jake scream from upstairs.

ALL: We rush to aid him.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: OK. Each of you make a Sanity roll as 
you enter the room and see the terrible scene. (They do, with 
various results).

CATHY: After Jake has regained control of himself, he finds 
a bathroom and wipes off his trench coat.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: What are the rest of you going to do?

"Uh-oh. Jake proceeds cautiously."

JOE: I want to inspect the body closely, but without touch-
ing it. Also, I’m warning the others not to step in the blood.

fail. Paula succeeds). Paula, you hear a clanging noise from 
the street outside. The rest of you hear nothing.

PAULA: I’m searching the other rooms up here.

ARNOLD: The professor comes with you.

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Joe,  you  can  see  more  of  the  filthy 
water splashed over the corpse. Some of it is even inside his 
brainpan.  There  are  some  abrasions  on  what  is  left  of  his 
face. Try a Spot Hidden roll.

JOE: I succeeded. Now what?

PAULA:  I  wonder  what  that  could  be?  I  hope  it’s  not  the 
manhole cover banging down!

(GARRIE) KEEPER: The front door suddenly slams closed 
and you can hear someone stomping in and up the stairs! 
(The Keeper stomps on the floor and hunches his shoulders for 
effect).

ARNOLD: My professor is waiting by the window—ready 
to jump out!

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Seven  feet  up  the  wall  is  a  bloody, 
watery handprint. Claw marks are visible, and the print is 
at least eight inches across the palm, though the fingers are 
quite stubby. It’s not smeared at all and you can make out 
the lines of the palm in the print.

PAULA: I’m shining my light out the bedroom door, trying 
to see what’s coming.

CATHY: Jake pulls out his.38 snub-nose revolver and looks 
over Paula’s shoulder.

JOE: Wow! I’m hissing for Paula, Jake and the professor to 
get in here. Does he have his camera with him, Arnold?

JOE:  I’m  cowering  behind  Jake  and  Paula  but  I’m  getting 
out my trench knife, just in case.

ARNOLD: Dang it! I knew the professor forgot something! 
Uh, he presses a sheet of paper from a notebook against the 
print for a copy.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: He gets the print. Arnold, your profes-
sor also notices strange symbols on the opposite wall. As he 
studies them, they seem to move, swirling hypnotically.

ARNOLD: Uh-oh! He wants a closer look.

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Shuffling  into  the  room  is  a  ghastly 
parody  of  a  man.  It  stands  almost  eight  feet  tall,  with  de-
formed,  twisted  extremities.  Its  face  is  a  mass  of  wrinkles. 
No features are visible. Its sickly brown-green skin is loose 
and strips of decaying flesh flap from its limbs. It drips the 
same  filthy  brown  water  you’ve  seen  earlier.