ifying Low Rolls
Use the default method. If you feel there are too many low 
rolls  (perhaps  three  or  more  under  10),  roll  an  additional 
1D6 and share out the extra points among the lowest dice 
rolls before multiplying by 5.

47 

chapter 3: CREATING INVESTIGATORSOption 3: Choosing Where to Place 
Rolled Characteristics
Roll and record five rolls of 3D6 and three rolls of 2D6+6. 
Multiply each of these eight results by 5.

Allocate the characteristic values as you wish among the 
eight  characteristics.  There  is  a  recommended  minimum 
value of 40 for INT and SIZ, although these may be lower, 
with the Keeper’s agreement.

Option 4: Point Buy Characteristics
Share  460  points  among  the  eight  characteristics  as  you 
wish (within the 15 to 90 range). There is a recommended 
minimum value of 40 for INT and SIZ, although these may 
be lower with the Keeper’s agreement, and no characteristic 
can be lower than 15.

Option 5: Quick Fire Method 
This  method  is  recommended  if  you  wish  to  get  up  and 
running quickly. 

G  Allocate 40, 50, 50, 50, 60, 60, 70, 80 where you like 

among your characteristics.

G  Apply age and EDU modifiers (see page 32).
G  Figure Damage Bonus and Build (see page 33).
G  Figure  Hit  Points  (CON+SIZ  divided  by  10)  and 

Luck (3D6 × 5).

G  Decide an occupation and select eight appropriate 

occupation skills.

G  Allocate  the  following  values  among  the  eight  oc-
cupation skills and Credit Rating: one at 70%, two 
at 60%, three at 50% and three at 40% (assign the 
skills  directly  to  these  values  and  ignore  the  skill 
base values). If your chosen profession states a low-
er Credit Rating skill than 40%, you should set an 

appropriate Credit Rating skill value and distribute 
the excess points elsewhere.

G  Pick four non-occupation skills and boost them by 

20% (adding 20 to the skill base values). 

G  Roll  for  background  details  then  elaborate  upon 

them later, during play.

G  Start Playing.
G  Fill in half and fifth values during play.
G  Sort out money if and when you need it.

Option 6: Reaching the Heights of 
Human Potential
You may have noticed that many characteristics have a max-
imum of 99, but the dice rolls only allow for a maximum 
score of 90. If you wish to allow for truly exceptional inves-
tigators, allow an extra 1D10 percentage points to distribute 
as the players' wish among the characteristics. That way, an 
investigator with INT 90 can boost it to 99 with a roll of 9 
on the die. 

This option can be used in combination with any other 

method.

Optional Rule: A Cap on 
Starting Skill Values
Investigators  having  high  skills  should  not  unbalance  the 
game,  given  that  some  skill  rolls  will  require  them  to  roll 
under  a  half  or  a  fifth  of  their  skill.  Likewise  even  a  99% 
Fighting skill can be dodged or fought back against (and a 
roll of 100 is always a failure).

If you feel that high skills are a concern for your group then 

simply apply an upper limit for starting skills, such as 75%.

48 

Call of CthulhuQuick Reference Chart for Half and Fifth Values
Find the characteristic or skill value under the Base Number column, and read across to determine the half (Hard) and fifth 
(Extreme) values.

Base 
Number

Half 
Value 
(½)

Fifth 
Value 
(1/5)

Base 
Number

Half