 139). Thus, the vehicle might advance up to 3 
locations with no penalty die, or up to 5 with 1 penalty die.

Ranged Attacks During a Chase
Firearms can be used during a chase: If a character on foot 
stops for a moment, he or she may use a firearm as normal. 
The options are as for one combat round of gunfire (i.e. one 
shot with a rifle, up to three shots with a handgun, etc.) This 
option costs 1 movement action, but no movement is made.
If a character is continuing to race (on foot or in a vehi-
cle), any firearms attack rolls are made with one additional 
penalty  die.  Taking  shots  in  this  manner  does  not  affect  a 
character’s performance in the chase. The options for firing 
are otherwise the same as for one combat round. This op-
tion does not cost any additional movement actions.

Vehicle tires may be targeted with gunfire: apply an addi-
tional penalty die to target tires due to their small size. Tires 
have an armor value of 3 and are only damaged by impaling 
weapons. If a tire takes 2 points of damage, it bursts. A burst 
tire reduces a vehicle’s build by 1 point.

The Keeper should judge the ranges for firearms. Both 
driver  and  passengers  gain  protection  from  a  vehicle’s  ar-
mor. The amount of armor is listed on Table V: Vehicles.

Driver Damage
If the driver of a moving vehicle suffers a major wound and 
remains conscious, he or she may still lose control of their 
vehicle and must roll immediately as for a Hazard at Hard 
difficulty level. A driver who falls unconscious due to a ma-
jor wound automatically loses control of the vehicle.

A  passenger  in  another  vehicle  fires  a  handgun  at 
Harvey. A Regular success is rolled for the firearms at-
tack. 1D10 damage is rolled, resulting in 10 damage. 
Harvey’s vehicle armor reduces this by 2, so Harvey 
takes 8 hit points damage. This is a major wound for 
Harvey,  who  wins  a  CON  roll  to  remain  conscious. 
He must now make a Drive Auto roll to keep control 
of  his  vehicle.  He  fails  the  roll.  The  Keeper  refers  to 
Table VI: Vehicular Collisions and chooses “moder-
ate incident” (it being a Hard difficulty level hazard), 
rolling 1 (1D6) point of build damage and a loss of 3 
(1D3) movement actions. This also results in 2 (1D6) 
hit  points  damage  for  Harvey.  The  Keeper  describes 
the  outcome;  Harvey  loses  control  of  his  car,  which 
glances off the side of an oncoming car, sending Har-
vey’s car spinning out of control. It takes him a while 
to  recover  control  and  rejoin  the  chase.  His  location 
remains unaltered.

Dealing with a Location in an  
Alternative Way
A  character  may  choose  to  interact  with  a  location  in  an 
alternative or unexpected way. For example, if a location is 
described  as “an  empty  residential  street,”  the  assumption 
may be that the quarry will run down it. Instead of this, they 
might decide to run to the nearest door and attempt to open 
it (by force if need be). If it fits the story then go with it. 

Characters Joining a Chase in Progress
Any  characters  who  join  an  ongoing  chase  should  make  a 
speed roll to determine their MOV rate. The Keeper should 
then position them on an appropriate location. 

A character who joins a chase as a pursuer needs a MOV 
rate that is at least equal to the slowest fleeing character. If 
they fail to achieve this, they can be ignored.

If a character joining a chase as a fleeing character has a 
MOV rate that is slower than the