 standards 
and a $10 per day spending limit).

Spending 
Money in Call 
of Cthulhu
If your characters travel 
to a place with a lower 
cost of living then they 
should find their money 
buys more. For example, if 
Harvey journeyed to rural 
India, he would find he 
was relatively rich and that 
he was able to afford a 
living standard above his 
usual one.

Harvey has a spending limit of $10 per day. One day 
he makes numerous spends; a camera, a short inter-
national telegram, and taking a contact out to dinner 
at a plush restaurant. He then wishes to attend a show 
at the music hall. At this point the Keeper decides that 
Harvey  has  spent  $15  (exceeding  his  $10  spending 
limit). Harvey reduces his cash by $15.

Money Coming In
During the game a character may receive a large sum of mon-
ey, perhaps as a reward. Such a sum can be added to cash in 
the short term or be invested in time as part of their assets. 

Harvey has gone on a shopping spree.

Going into Debt

How  debt  is  taken  on  and  repaid  is  all  part  of  your  story. 
Perhaps the investigator’s car must be sold, or money must 
be  sought  from  a  loan  shark. While  financial  transactions 
are not intended to be the focus of play, the steady decline of 
a character’s Sanity may well go hand-in-hand with physical 
and material decline.

Investigator Development Phase: 
Employment and Credit Rating
Ill-health  (physical  or  mental)  or  continued  absence  from 
work may lead to loss of employment and a fall in income. 
Some professions do not require the investigator to be ac-
tively  employed  to  derive  an  income  (such  as  Dilettante), 
and  so  are  not  prone  to  loss  of  employment.  However  a 
stock market crash will have a major effect on such an in-
dividual’s  finances,  and  events  should  be  dealt  with  at  the 
Keeper’s discretion (perhaps using Luck rolls). Conversely, 
Credit Rating might be raised when an investigator acquires 
a higher-paying job.

A person can be rich one day and on the street the next, 
but  a  gradual  decline  is  more  common.  If  an  investigator 
loses  their  employment,  they  lose  their  income,  and  their 
Credit Rating will fall. A loss of assets does not necessarily 
indicate  a  loss  of  Credit  Rating  if  one  still  has  a  reliable 
income.

Where  an  investigator’s  financial  situation  has  under-
gone a significant change, the Keeper should decide on one 
of  the  following  options.  The  following  list  of  conditions 
ranges from good to bad, and should generally be applied 
during the investigator development phase.

96 

Call of CthulhuI’m  rich!  When  an  investigator  comes  into  money,  they 
should  check  to  see  if  their  assets  are  equal  to  those  of  a 
higher living standard bracket. If this is the case, the player 
should increase their investigator’s Credit Rating in steps of 
1D10 until their Credit Rating is within the new bracket. 

the Credit Rating and Asset Value of each investigator in a way 
that feels appropriate to events in the story. Continuing with 
the status quo is of course the default,  and Keepers should only 
seek to make changes when they are waranted.

If  Harvey  (starting  in  the ‘average  income’  bracket) 
came  into  money  such  that  his  assets  increased  to 
$30,000,  this  would  bring  him  within  the  ‘wealthy’ 
bracket for the 1920s ($25,000–$44,500). His Credit 
Rating was