 the investigator’s current Sanity 
points. Bonus dice and penalty dice are not applied to Sanity 
rolls (with one exception, Self-Help, page 167). 

Note: If using the optional rule for spending Luck points, 

these may not be spent on Sanity rolls.

A successful roll means that the investigator loses no Sanity 
points, or only a minimal amount. A failed Sanity roll always 
means  the  investigator  loses  Sanity  points.  The  amount  lost 
depends on the spell, book, entity, or situation encountered. 

The Mythos is anathema to the human mind.

In published Call of Cthulhu scenarios, Sanity loss rolls 
are shown as two numbers or rolls separated by a slash, for 
instance: SAN 1/1D4+1. The number to the left of the slash 
is the number of Sanity points lost if the Sanity roll succeeds. 
The die roll to the right of the slash is the number of Sanity 
points lost if the Sanity roll is failed. Sometimes this may be 
written  as  SAN  0/1D4;  in  this  particular  case,  a  successful 
Sanity roll means no Sanity points are lost, but if the roll is 
failed, the investigator loses 1D4 Sanity points.

Failing  a  Sanity  roll  always  causes  the  investigator  to 
lose self-control for a moment, at which point the Keeper 
should  choose  an  involuntary  action  for  the  investigator. 
For example:

T  Jump  in  fright—causing  the  investigator  to  drop 
something (spectacles, flashlight, gun, book, etc.)
T  Cry out in terror—drawing attention, saying some-

thing inappropriate.

T  Involuntary  movement—swerving  the  steering 
wheel  dangerously  to  one  side,  throwing  up  one’s 
hands in horror, cringing.

T  Involuntary combat action—if a Sanity roll is failed 
during  a  combat  round,  the  investigator’s  action 
for  that  round  may  be  dictated  by  the  Keeper;  for 
example, lashing out with a fist, squeezing a trigger, 
taking shelter behind someone else.

T  Freeze—stare disbelievingly for a moment but take 

no action.

A fumbled Sanity roll results in the character losing the 
maximum  Sanity  points  for  that  particular  situation  or 
encounter.

154 

Call of CthulhuLosing more than a few Sanity points at one time may 

cause an investigator to go insane, as described later.

When  encountering  one  ghoul,  the  Sanity  point  loss  is 
0/1D6. It is the same when encountering multiple ghouls; the 
sanity effect is for the encounter rather than each ghoul seen. 

Harvey Walters follows a trail into a crypt, where he 
finds a ghoul feasting on forbidden fruits among the 
coffins. The Keeper calls for a Sanity roll. Harvey has 
45 Sanity points and his player rolls 83—a failed roll. 
The  Keeper  describes  Harvey’s  involuntary  gasp  of 
horror. The player picks up 1D6, rolls a 4, and reduces 
Harvey’s Sanity points by 4 points (45–4 = 41 Sanity 
points remaining).

Maximum Sanity

The threat of insanity in Call of Cthulhu characterizes the 
Cthulhu  Mythos  in  a  way  that  allows  no  compromise. 
Exposed to it, few sane humans freely choose the Mythos, 
for the Mythos is intrinsically loathsome and foul. The con-
nection  of  Sanity  points  and  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  points 
emphasizes  the  power  of  the  Mythos,  which  corrupts  and 
ruins by proximity and association. 

An investigator’s Sanity points may rise and fall during 
play;  however,  they  may  never  rise  above  the  character’s 
maximum Sanity rating. Each investigator has