, running into a door-
post, or falling down an elevator shaft. Whatever the cause, 
consider  the  likely  injury  and  rate  it  against  the  left-hand 
column on Table III: Other Forms of Damage.

  Don’t feel compelled to limit yourself to the amounts 
of  damage  listed—you  wish  you  may  increase  or  decrease 
the amounts subject to the circumstances of the situation. 

Each  injury  type  is  for  one  incident  or  one  round;  one 
round  of  being  punched  by  one  attacker,  one  bullet,  one 
round of drowning, one round of being burned. The char-
acter will take further damage on each successive round that 
they are exposed to the source of the harm.

Harvey fails a pushed Stealth roll as he attempts to 
follow  someone  through  a  fairground.  As  a  conse-
quence the Keeper rules that he is struck by one of 
the  moving  fairground  rides.  There  is  no  damage 
listed for fairground rides so he refers to the ‘Other 
Forms of Damage’ table. The Keeper feels it would 
be likely to knock someone unconscious and chooses 
‘Severe’, rolling 1D10 damage.

Spot Rules: Optional 
Rules for Combat

The  main  combat  chapter  contains  all  the  rules  you  will 
need to run fight scenes in your game and you are advised 
to stick with these until you become accustomed to them. 

What follows are a collection of optional rules from which 
you can mix and match as you please. You are not compelled 
to use them just because they are here. Some people prefer 
to  make  spontaneous  judgments  about  each  new  situation 
based  on  its  unique  merits,  while  others  prefer  to  have  a 
strongly defined set of rules to play by. You and your group 
should decide which you prefer.

Rolling for Initiative
If  you  prefer  more  variation  in  combat,  ask  everyone  to 
make  a  DEX  roll  to  determine  the  initiative  order.  Those 
who rolled an Extreme success will be first to act, followed 
by those who rolled a Hard success, then those with a Regu-
lar success, and finally those who failed the roll. 

If  more  than  one  character  achieves  the  same  level  of 
success, give priority to those with the higher DEX value. If 
characters are still tied, use combat skill value to prioritize. 
Those  that  roll  01  (critical)  on  their  DEX  roll  should 
gain a tactical advantage or bonus die on their first attack. 
Those that roll a fumble should forgo their first attack, per-
haps dropping their weapon or tripping.

Once the initiative order has been determined, stick with 

it for the duration of that combat.

Note  down  each  combatant  in  order,  along  with  their 
level of success (for example "Brian, Fail"). That way if ad-
ditional combatants join, they can make a DEX roll and be 
placed in the existing initiative order. This will also be useful 
if characters draw guns, as this will affect the timing of their 
action in the combat round. 

When using this optional rule, a character with a readied 
firearm may roll their DEX with a bonus die. If a character 
draws  a  firearm  during  the  combat  and  has  it  readied  at 

123 

chapter 6: combatTable III:  
Other Forms of Damage

Injury

Damage

Examples

Minor: a person could survive 
numerous occurrences of this level 
of damage.

1D3

Punch, kick, head-butt, mild acid, breathing smoky atmosphere*, a 
thrown fist-size rock, falling (per 10 feet) onto soft swamp.

Moderate: might cause a major 
wound; it would take a few such 
attacks to kill.

1D6

Falling (per 10 feet