1D10 points of 
STR and CON per day until fully recovered.

Crystal of the Elder Things 

Used by: Elder things
Large crystalline storage containers constructed to harness 
the  power  needed  to  bind  shoggoths  to  elder  thing  will. 
These crystals store magic points. The smallest shards might 
store 5 magic points and the largest 100. A caster can draw 
some or all of the magic points from a crystal while casting 
a spell. 

When  empty  these  crystals  are  room 
temperature,  but  they  become  colder  as 
more magic points are stored in them.

To  access  the  magic  points  stored  the 

user  must  become  attuned  to  the  spe-
cific  crystal.  There  must  be  physical 
contact and the user must spend 1D6 
rounds  attuning  to  the  vibrations  of 
the crystal. On the final round a POW 
roll  must  be  made.  With  success  the 
user can draw upon the magic points 
within as needed. Note that only elder 
things have the ability and understand-
ing to invest crystals with further magic 
points.

Crystal of the 
Elder Things

Brain Cylinder

269 

chapter 13: artifacts and alien devicesCrystallizer of Dreams

Used by: Anyone
Looking  like  a  large,  yellowish  egg,  the  crystallizer  is  used 
to view places faraway (distant lands, planets, and perhaps 
dimensions) in dreams.

A second, purported, function of this artifact is the abili-
ty it bestows upon its user to bring items (or even creatures) 
back with them from the Dreamlands. Presumably the user 
must have the item or creature in physical contact with them 
for this to be successful. 

Myths surround this unique device and tell that the user 
should beware lest they fall foul of the guardian of the crys-
tallizer—a servant of Hypnos that appears like a translucent 
jellyfish.

Domination Serum 

Used by: Serpent people
A colorless serum with the faintest taste of raspberries. No 
more than ten drops are required for full effect. If a Hard 
Con  roll  is  failed  the  target  becomes  very  suggestible,  but 
only to serpent people. Something in their peculiar smell or 
the specific intonation of their voices is the key to this sug-
gestibility.  The  victim  will  do  almost  anything  for  serpent 
people, short of endangering his or her own life or the lives 
of loved ones. 

The serum metabolizes slowly, taking 1D10+10 days for 
a victim to be free of its effects, provided no more is imbibed 
in the meantime.

Earthquake Mining Machine 

Used by: Mi-go
A massive cube measuring twenty feet on a side. The sides are 
covered with small, irregularly spaced convex windows of a 
cloudy, glasslike substance. When the device is made active it 
can be adjusted to pull a deeply buried stratum up through 

intervening layers of rock. The machine can reach down four 
to five miles and can affect an area up to one cubic mile in 
area at a time. However, the machine has the unfortunate side 
effect of causing earthquakes when it is used.

The size and depth of the area affected are directly cor-
related to the magnitude of the earthquake. For this reason 
mi-go tend to use such machines only in largely uninhabited 
areas, to avoid detection. A human unfamiliar with mi-go 
technology  would  be  unlikely  to  be  able  to  use  the  earth-
quake mining machine, except perhaps accidentally.

Electric Gun 

Used by: Mi-go
This  weapon  looks  like  a  warty,  doorknob-sized  lump  of 
black  metal,  covered  in  tiny  wires.  Mi-go  fire  this  weapon 
by clutching it tightly and changing the electrical resistance 
of the lump. 

When activated, the weapon fires a bluish bolt of sparks, 
