). 
The situation demands a pushed roll—the only alternative 
is  that  the  investigator  gives  up  and  drowns.  If  the  player 
misses the pushed swim roll, the investigator is battered and 
half-drowned,  taking  1D6  damage  per  round.  The  Keeper 
must then make an important decision: either the investi-
gator’s life is put on the line or the investigator is washed up 
later elsewhere. If the Keeper chooses the former, then the 
investigator will continue to lose hit points each round until 
saved by another investigator or non-player character. Alter-
natively, if no one else is around, the Keeper could waive the 
drowning damage and instead have the unsuccessful pushed 
roll mean that the investigator has washed up on some for-
eign shore, bereft of all possessions and in a bad way.

Strangling an enemy:

First the attacker would use a Fighting Maneuver with the 
aim of “seizing my victim in a stranglehold”. The standard 
combat rules accommodate this. After completing the ma-
neuver, on each successive round the attacker (who is now 
acting with one bonus die as a result of the successful fight-
ing  maneuver)  may  strangle  the  target  using  the  Fighting 
skill to make attacks as normal; any damage is narrated as 
strangulation. Note how this uses standard combat rules.

House Rules
If  you  wish  to  create  a  custom  or  house  rule  for  specific 
circumstances, think carefully before doing so.

Are  you  sure  that  what  you  want  to  do  would  not  be 
handled equally well using the standard rules? Is a custom 
rule going to add significantly to the game? 

The  game  includes  specific  rules  for  combat,  chases, 
magic,  luck,  sanity,  and  physical  harm.  Everything  else  is 

handled with skill rolls. For example, no specific rules are in-
cluded for how long a person can survive without food and 
water or how long it takes to hack into a computer network. 
These things can be decided by the Keeper as appropriate to 
the current scenario, using the standard rules and personal 
judgment.  However,  if  one  of  these  is  a  key  element  in  a 
particular  scenario,  then  it  might  be  appropriate  to  come 
up with custom rules that specifically focus on that aspect. 
When making a custom rule, try to keep it simple—focus 
on one skill or a limited number of skills (or characteristics) 
and decide on a method of tracking degrees of success. Try 
to  build  in  meaningful  decisions  that  can  be  taken  by  the 
players; such things might alter the difficulty level or change 
which skill is used.

Of course, the rulebook could attempt to list a specific 
rule for every eventuality, but this leads to a game in which 
the rules must constantly be referred to and in which every-
one is restrained by a rule on every action. Call of Cthulhu is 
designed to be flexible and to encourage the Keeper to make 
creative use of the core rule: the skill roll.

You are writing a scenario that begins with the inves-
tigators lost in a desert, with limited food and water. 
The  aim  is  to  design  a  rule  that  will  emphasize  the 
effects of deprivation and fatigue. Being in the desert 
will  lead  to  dehydration,  disorientation,  starvation, 
sunburn,  and  fatigue. You  decide  that  the  key  char-
acteristic  relating  to  this  is  CON.  Ultimately,  being 
lost in the desert will lead to death, so hit points will 
be  used  to  track  failure.  The  players  will  be  asked 
to make a CON roll for each day of game time that 
passes—if a player fails the roll, their investigator will 
take 1D3 damage