

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: This huge being may stomp, punch, and crush its 
targets. If it uses its claws all armor is ignored. If within reach, 
Ithaqua  may  grab  with  one  mighty  claw  per  round.  Anyone 
grabbed is automatically held as well, if Ithaqua desires.

Wind  Gust:  If  Ithaqua  is  within  a  few  dozen  yards,  he  can  use 
mighty winds to attempt to whisk victims into the air. Players 
of those attacked this way must make an opposed STR roll. If 
Ithaqua is attacking several investigators, divide his STR among 
them. The damage is in the lift and drop—1D10 x 10 feet. Each 
10 feet dropped equals 1D6 damage.

Fighting 80% (40/16), damage bonus 

Despite tales of Ithaqua’s imprisonment in the Arctic 
north, some believe that the chains that bind him only 
have  strength  upon  the  Earth  and  that  he  is  free  to 
travel  elsewhere  to  other  realms  and  planets  of  his 
choosing. His servants too—the burning-ice wind and 
his other minions—may go where they please, acting 
out  the  god’s  wrath  on  those  who  think  themselves 
safe outside of Ithaqua’s region of imprisonment.

The cry of the Wendigo is said to be the anguish 
of  the  imprisoned  god,  combining  the  hatred  of  his 
binding and a jealousy for those living things able to 
crawl where they will upon the Earth.

Wind Gust 100% (50/20), special (see above) 
Armor: 10 points of skin and thick rime. 
Spells: All Call and Contact spells.
Sanity Loss: 1D10/1D100 Sanity points to see Ithaqua. 1/1D6 San-
ity points to hear the howl of the Wendigo on the North Wind.

King in Yellow, Avatar of Hastur

He stands in state upon the balcony. He has no face, and 
is twice as tall as a man, He wears pointed shoes under his 
tattered, fantastically coloured robes, and a streamer of silk 
appears to fall from the pointed tip of his hood… At times he 
appears to be winged; at other, haloed.

—James Blish, More Light

The King in Yellow might be human-seeming, clad in tat-
tered  yellow  or  particolored  rags,  and  wearing  the  Pallid 
Mask. The rags are extensions of the entity’s flesh, while the 
mask covers horrible pseudopods that can attach to a target 
and drain the very life from them (POW). Above all, the be-
ing possesses a loathsome plasticity of shape, able to stretch 
and change at will. This is the most frequently encountered 
avatar of Hastur the Unnameable.

Cult
Worshippers are often solitary madmen—artists and poets, 
driven mad by reading the haunting play The King In Yel-
low  (page  228),  and  inspired  by  its  cruel  beauty  to  create 
art that renders human experience meaningless. The insan-
ity-inducing  Yellow Sign  (page  322)  is  often  embossed  or 
stamped on editions of the evil book. The sign is a focus for 
madness, helping to warp the dreams of those who see it. 

CON 530 

THE  KING  IN  YELLOW,  Avatar  of  Hastur,  Lord  of  
Carcosa, Master of the Yellow Sign
STR 125 
POW 175  HP 60
Damage Bonus: +1D6
Build: 2
Magic Points: 35
Move: 15 or can appear/disappear at will.

DEX 135 

INT 250

SIZ 70 

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1  gaze  attack,  6  razor  sharp