, gardener, etc.). Second homes in the country and abroad. 
Stay in top hotels.
Travel: first class. In the modern day this person would own numerous luxury 
cars.
There is no requirement to make any account for accommodation, food or inciden-
tal travel expenses so long as an investigator’s spending falls within the bounds of 
his or her living standard. Refer to Table II: Cash and Assets if the investigator 
wishes to make more significant purchases.

Credit Rating 99: Super Rich
As Rich, but money is really no object. Individuals in this category are among 
the richest in the world.

46 

Cross  reference  the  investigator’s 
Credit Rating with the period to deter-
mine the investigator’s available cash, 
assets and spending level.

Notes:

Cash:  Not  necessarily  carried  on 
the person. The Keeper may ask where 
it is being kept. For example, if the in-
vestigator is traveling abroad, are they 
keeping it in a money belt or is there 
someone  back  home  who  can  wire 
money to them when requested. This 
will have an impact if the investigator 
is robbed or loses their gear. 

Spending  Level:  This  is  an  arbi-
trary amount below which, for ease of 
play,  no  record  keeping  is  required. A 
character  can  spend  up  to  his  or  her 
spending  level  with  no  expenditure 
of  cash.  In  theory  an  investigator 
could  spend  an  amount  just  below 
their  spending  level  every  day,  but  in 
practice  it  should  be  used  only  occa-
sionally—if  the  Keeper  feels  a  player 
is exploiting this financial abstraction, 
a  use  of  assets  may  be  called  for.  The 
spending levels exist purely to ease the 
flow of the game; no one wants to track 
every penny.

Assets:  Assets  are  the  things  that 
your  investigator  owns  at  the  start  of 
play  and  the  dollar  amount  on  the 
chart is the total value of those things. 
The  player  should  note  down  the 
dollar amount and decide the form it 
takes, usually property or investments, 
or  perhaps  shares  in  a  business.    The 
standard list of possessions is included 
within  the  various  brackets  of  living 
standards.  If  your 
living  standard 
includes a house and car, those things 
constitute a part of your asset value.

Equipment
The final step is to write down any im-
portant  items,  weapons  or  equipment 
your 
investigator  possesses.  There’s 
no  need  to  write  a  detailed  list  of 
everything  your  character  owns—just 
list  the  notable  items.  In  many  cases, 
starting  investigators  don’t  really  have 
anything exceptional or worth writing 
down in the way of equipment—that’s 
fine  as  you’ll  soon  be  uncovering  all 
manner  of  strange  and  remarkable 
items  during  the  game.  Items  that  fit 

Call of CthulhuEven 

the  profile  of  your  investigator’s 
living standard do not need to be 
paid for—you simply own those.
investigator 
if  your 
takes  no  weapons,  he  or  she 
may still use them. Perhaps your 
investigator  served  in  a  war,  or 
gained  some  familiarity  with 
knives  or  guns  while  growing 
up on a farm. Few people in any 
era  are  expert  with  weapons, 
though  often  they  have  passing 
acquaintance with them. Except 
for  a  few  occupations  like  Sol-
dier,  additional  skill  points  for 
Fighting and Firearms normally 
come  out  of