 of having a missing 
reel of film, the movie jumps to a later scene of carnage with 
the protagonists in the thick of the action.

Investigator Death
In some instances, death (even death of the whole investi-
gator  group)  can  be  a  dramatic  and  memorable  outcome. 
But the death of an investigator knocks a player out of the 
game until such a time that a new investigator can be created 
and introduced to the story. Don’t be too ready to deal out 
death if other interesting options are possible. Endeavoring 
to make the game an enjoyable experience for everyone is 
far more important than being a slave to realism. 

Remember, this is a horror game, and the threat of both 
death and insanity should accompany the investigators’ ev-
ery step. An investigator is controlled by a player and there 
are only two outcomes that permanently end this: death and 
permanent insanity. 

212 

Call of CthulhuYou  may  be  tempted  towards  leniency  when  it  comes 
to  dealing  out  damage,  but  be  mindful  that  in  most  cases 
accumulated damage leads to unconsciousness rather than 
death.  Players  are  encouraged  to  form  an  attachment  to 
their investigators and the death of an investigator should 
always be a significant event. Don’t be surprised if a player 
welcomes the death of an investigator, especially if the death 
is heroic, meaningful, or will simply make a great anecdote!

Epilogues
A short epilogue for each investigator is a nice way to wrap 
up  the  end  of  a  story. A  brief  epilogue  can  be  used  to  tell 
what becomes of each investigator in the aftermath of the 
story, and provides an opportunity to recognize every play-
er’s contribution to the game. Go around the group and talk 
to  each  player  in  turn  about  the  fate  of  their  investigator. 
There’s  no  need  for  dice  rolls,  just  a  brief  description  of 
what  the  future  holds.  Try  to  make  each  epilogue  suitably 
Lovecraftian and appropriate to your story.

Things don’t go well for a group of three investigators 
playing Amidst the Ancient Trees. Two investigators  
are  dead  and  the  remaining  survivor  has  fled  into 
the forest after a sanity breaking encounter with the 
monster in the lake. The Keeper could just end it there, 
but it feels a little abrupt. Instead the Keeper suggests 
a brief epilogue and looks to the player of the surviv-
ing investigator. “What becomes of you?” The player 
suggests that the investigator returns to town ranting 
about  the  "Thing  in  the  lake."  The  Keeper  wraps 
things up:“Very well, the townsfolk don't believe your 
tales of watery monsters. Despite a search of the lake, 
no  evidence  is  found  to  substantiate  your  story. You 
find  that  it's  easier  to  hit  the  bottle  and  forget  your 
horrific  experienence,  but  each  night  bad  dreams 
haunt  you.  Eventually,  consumed  with  a  desire  to 
break-free of this curse, you head towards the lake, a 
box of dynamite in your hands...

Start with a mysterious event

Rather  than  starting  with  a  general  setting,  pick  a  more 
mysterious or unexplained event and build a scenario based 
upon it; for example the Tunguska event of 1908 in Russia.

Devise an alternate history

Pick  a  turning  point  in  history  and  ask  what  would  have 
happened if things had gone differently; what if Hitler had 
used Mythos magic to win the war?

Pick a monster or god

Use  a  Mythos  entity  as  inspiration  for  a  scenario;  picking 
“fire vampire”