 two  “units”  dice  of  different  colors, 
each numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0. Read the die of one 
color  consistently  as  the  tens-digit  and  the  other  as  the 
units-digit: thus a result of 2 and 3 reads as 23, a result of 0 
and 1 reads as 1, and a result of 1 and 0 reads as 10. A result 
of 0 and 0 reads as 100.

17 

chapter 1: introduction18 

Call of CthulhuDice Roll Variations

Sometimes  a  dice  notation  in  the  rules  or  in  a  scenario  is 
preceded by a number; it tells the reader that more than one 
such  die  should  be  rolled  and  that  their  results  should  be 
added together. For instance, 2D6 means that two 6-sided 
dice  should  be  rolled  and  totalled  (or  roll  a  D6  twice  and 
add the scores together).

Sometimes additions are shown to die rolls. You might 
see  1D6+1,  for  instance.  This  means  that  the  number  fol-
lowing the plus sign should be added to the result of the D6 
roll. For 1D6+1, the result must be 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7.

A notation may require that different dice be rolled at one 
time.  If  a  monster  claws  for  1D6+1+2D4  damage,  find  the 
power of the actual attack by rolling the three requested dice, 
totalling the results, and adding one (thus, rolling 1D6 and 
2D4 [1D4 and another 1D4] and adding 1 to the total rolled). 
The notation “damage bonus” (or “DB”) appended to attack 
damage reminds the Keeper and players to add the monster’s 
or investigator’s “damage bonus” to the dice rolled.

The Investigator Sheet
Players  should  record  the  details  of  their  investigators  on 
investigator sheets, found near the back of this book (page 
422)  and  ready  to  photocopy—investigator  sheets  are  also 
available for free download at www.chaosium.com. There 
are  versions  for  the  1920s  and  Modern  Day  games.  The 
investigator  sheet  holds  all  the  information  needed  for 
investigators to tackle mysteries. The next chapter explains 
how to fill out this sheet.

Figures and Other Paraphernalia
Call  of  Cthulhu  can  be  played  verbally,  without  miniature 
figures  or  paraphernalia  other  than  dice  and  investigator 
sheets.  You  may  find,  however,  that  miniatures,  tokens  or 
markers  help  you  to  visualise  the  action,  denoting  where 
each  investigator  is  positioned  during  a  combat  scene  or 
determining  who’s  at  the  front  when  searching  through 
ancient catacombs and the like. Whether or not models are 
used,  players  usually  find  it  helpful  if  the  Keeper  sketches 
out the area of activity or the encounter on a sheet of graph 
or plain paper.

Likewise,  some  gaming  groups  like  to  use  props  in 
their  games,  such  as  statuettes,  letters,  books  or  even  clay 
tablets.  Such  items,  if  prepared  with  care,  can  lend  drama 
and atmosphere to a game. However, they can also end up 
looking silly if they are poorly presented. Some players