 struck or shot, for example) 
during its casting.. The Keeper may consult the charts for the 
consequences  of  failing  a  pushed  casting  roll  (see  previous 
page) for inspiration on what might happen. The caster of a 
failed spell casting must still pay the Sanity point and Magic 
point costs.

Becoming a Believer

Leng, wherever in space or time it might brood, was not 
a region I would care to be in or near, nor did I relish the 
proximity of a world that had ever bred such ambiguous and 
Archaean monstrosities as those Lake had just mentioned. 
At the moment I felt sorry that I had ever read the abhorred 
Necronomicon, or talked so much with that unpleasantly 
erudite folklorist Wilmarth at the university.

—H.P. Lovecraft, At the Mountains of Madness

An investigator who comes face-to-face with a deep one or a 
ghoul has an experience that leaves no option but to believe in 
the cosmic horror of the Cthulhu Mythos. However, reading 
the Cultes des Goules while safe in an apartment with the lights 
on, the reader might dismiss the contents as a work of fantasy. 
This is the player’s prerogative, but disbelief has it perils.

 Whether one believes what is read or not, the knowledge 
is still absorbed. If the character chooses not to believe what 
is  read  then  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  knowledge  granted  by 
the book is added to the investigator’s skill and maximum 
Sanity  points  are  reduced  by  the  corresponding  amount, 
but  no  Sanity  points  are  lost.  In  this  way  an  investigator 
can  accumulate  considerable  knowledge  of  the  Cthulhu 
Mythos  without  losing  any  Sanity  points  at  all.  However, 
when  encountering  evidence  of  the  Mythos  firsthand,  the 
investigator will realize that those accursed books held the 
truth! At that point the investigator becomes a believer and 
immediately loses Sanity points equal to his or her present 
Cthulhu Mythos score. 

Keepers may be relieved that this requires little bookkeep-
ing on their part. The player records their investigator’s gain 
of Cthulhu Mythos skill as normal and it is that value that is 
deducted from their Sanity points when becoming a believer. 
An investigator can choose to remain a nonbeliever until 
forced to lose Sanity points for encountering the Mythos first-
hand. Viewing  human  corpses  or  torture  may  cause  Sanity 
point loss, but such loss does not lead to belief in the Mythos. 
A nonbeliever may read Mythos books and learn (but not 
cast) spells. Firsthand experience of the Mythos always calls 
for a Sanity roll, and the loss of one or more of Sanity points 

"Shoot..was that a ph'ngui or a ph'nguy?"

compel  an  investigator  to  believe  in  the  Cthulhu  Mythos 
thereafter. However, even some firsthand experiences may not 
convince a disbeliever; if a Sanity roll is passed for encoun-
tering a deep one (SAN 0/1D6) no Sanity points are lost and, 
as such, an investigator might remain a nonbeliever, perhaps 
rationalizing the creature as Earthly human mutation. How-
ever, meeting a clearly unearthly being or a manifestation of 
one of the gods of the Mythos will always be enough to rip 
through the façade of the investigator’s beliefs.

An investigator can become a believer at any point the 

player wishes (and take the Sanity point loss).

How Sorcerers Get That Way
Though investigators rarely have the chance, sorcerers and 
cultists sometimes swagger around with unseemly amounts 
of Power (POW). Where did it come from? 

When a character successfully casts a spell requiring an 
opposed POW roll to affect the target, this creates a chance 
for the caster