 out-
line  of  his  book 
racket,  although 
she  paid 
little 
notice to many of the details. 

Lucy Stone

T  She knows that as well as a forger and dealer in rare 
books  (the  "no  questions  asked"  kind),  Leiter  was 
also  a  gambler  who  liked  to  play  at  being  a  high 

roller—he’d taken her twice to Atlantic City, in June 
and August of this year. She knew that the August 
trip had occasioned him losing big and he left ow-
ing  money  to  people  it  was  unwise  to  get  tangled 
up with. When the opportunity presents itself, she’ll 
break into Leiter’s cottage in search of hidden loot 
(she knows his secret hiding place).

T  If  asked  about  any  of  Leiter’s  contacts  used  in  his 
racket, she will mention that she knew he used an 
artist to help copy documents—a student of some 
kind  that  had  been  kicked  out  of  MU  a  few  years 
back—but doesn’t know a name. More solidly, she 
still has the business card (including shop address) 
of a local antique dealer who was a regular buyer—a 
man called Abner Wick. If asked about him, she will 
offer that she had met him “once or twice socially,” 
and  that  he  seemed  to  her  “a  real  old-fashioned 
gentleman, but you know, I doubt I was his type.”
T  She can attest to Leiter’s rising paranoia, instability 

and desire to skip town in his final weeks.

T  If asked if she herself felt in danger, she will mention 
a “creepy little college boy” she’s seen hanging around 
the  neighborhood  both  before  Leiter’s  death  and 
once or twice since (this is Anthony Flinders). Obser-
vant investigators (Psychology roll) may notice she’s 
hiding  something  more,  even  if  they  have  already 
managed to win her over. To draw further informa-
tion from her requires a Charm, Intimidate, or Per-
suade roll (note that Charm and Intimidate will be 
more difficult since she has 50%+ in both skill) and 
reveals  that  she  has  already  been  questioned  about 
Leiter’s death by two gangsters from the Atlantic City 
mob, who are interested in whether or not Leiter is in 
fact dead or if he has faked his death to avoid paying 
his debts—the sudden and mysterious nature of the 
death and the lack of a funeral has made their boss 
suspicious. While the questions stopped short of ac-
tual violence, the gangsters left her in no doubt as to 
the consequences of lying to them, as well as instruc-
tions to keep them informed if anything suspicious 
regarding Leiter showed up, “If she wanted to remain 
healthy.” Unless the investigators persuade her to tell 
them  this,  she’ll  be  calling  the  gangsters  at  Atlantic 
City as soon as they are gone. 

Roleplaying hooks
T  Stone will take whatever she can get—“A girl’s got to 

live!”

T  Thinks  she  can  twist  every  man  (including  male 

investigators) around her little finger.

T  She loved Leiter and wants to pay her final respects 

to his body.

T  She’s frightened by the visit from the mobsters and 
wants to get the hidden cash from Leiter’s cottage; 
however if she sees another opportunity for money 

372 

Call of Cthulhuto enable her to flee and start again in a new city she 
will seize it.

Keeper’s Notes: Stone is ruled by her emotions as much 
as  her  head,  and  as  such  is  more  likely  to  help  the  inves-
tigators  if  she  thinks  they  are  trying  to  solve 