  actions  per 
round.  Movement  actions  are  used  to  move  from  one  lo-
cation  to  the  next.  Faster  characters  get  more  movement 
actions each round than slower characters.

Every  character  and  vehicle  gets  one  movement  action 
by  default.  To  this  is  added  the  difference  between  their 
movement  rating  (MOV)  and  the  movement  rating  of  the 
slowest participant in the chase. Thus the slowest participant 
will always have one movement action; someone with a MOV 
that is 1 above the slowest participant will have 2 movement 
actions,  someone  with  a  MOV  that  is  2  above  the  slowest 
participant will have 3 movement actions, and so on.

Back to Harvey’s attempt to escape from the angry 
farmer. Following speed rolls, Harvey’s MOV is now 
5; the farmer’s MOV is 6. Both get one movement ac-
tion by default. The farmer gets a second movement 
action because his speed is one more than that of the 
slowest character in the chase—Harvey.

Actions in a Chase Round
On  their  turn  in  the  DEX  order  (highest  to  lowest)  each 
character may use their turn to:

i  Move  forward  in  the  chase  (spending  movement 

actions to do so).

i  Initiate one attack* using the Fighting, Firearms, or 

Drive Auto skill.

i  Cast a spell.
i  Perform some other action requiring time and per-

haps a dice roll, such as picking a lock.

*Note that some monsters are capable of multiple attacks 

in one round; these all take place on the monster’s turn.

A  character  may  elect  to  delay  acting  until  another 
character has acted. If this leads to more than one character 
wishing to act simultaneously, the one with the highest DEX 
takes  priority.  If  both  insist  on  waiting  for  the  other,  the 
round may end with neither of them acting.

Pushing Rolls in a Chase
Pushed rolls are not used in a chase. As in combat, a charac-
ter usually has the opportunity for another attempt on the 
following round.

Part 3: Movement

Moving From One Location to the Next
If an area is free of hazards, such as an empty corridor or 
stretch of clear straight road, the cost of moving from one 
location to the next is 1 movement action.

Returning  to  Harvey  being  pursued  down  the  track 
by the angry farmer. Following speed rolls, Harvey’s 
MOV is now 5; the farmer’s MOV is 6. Harvey’s DEX 
is 55. The farmer’s DEX is 50. 
Harvey’s turn:

Harvey  has  1  movement  action  and  moves  for-

ward 1 location. That is the end of Harvey’s turn. 

After Harvey’s Move:

Farmer
Farmer’s turn:

Harvey

The farmer has 2 movement actions and advances 

2 locations. That is the end of the farmer’s turn.

End of Round One:

Farmer

Harvey

At the end of round 1, the farmer has closed the 
gap from 2 locations to 1 location. Clearly if the chase 
continues in the same manner, the farmer will catch 
up with Harvey at the end of next round. If the farmer 
had  the  higher  DEX,  he  would  have  moved  first  in 
round 1 and caught up with Harvey immediately.

Hazards
A  chase  that  takes  place  on  even,  clear  ground  will  soon 
be resolved if the pursuer is faster than the character he or 
she is chasing; or, if both are of the same MOV speed, the 
chase might never end, with one character staying just out 
of range of the other. Either way, this leads to a bland chase 
scene based purely upon numbers. 

134 

Call of Cth