 make  an 
appearance as the Keeper wishes. They don’t want to harm 
their captives before nightfall if they can help it. 

The Crystal

Escape
If  the  investigators  have  been  taken  captive,  the  bonds 
holding them will be secure; it could take a while to work 
themselves free. The investigators can make Hard DEX rolls, 
whether  they  try  to  free  their  own  bonds  or  help  another 
investigator. This roll may be pushed, with the consequence 
of failure being attracting the servants’ attention.

Any  servants  in  the  next  room  can  hear  everything  the 
investigators say if louder than a whisper. They will intervene 
if they hear anything suspicious. A successful Stealth roll will 
allow investigators (once free of their bonds) to move across 
the  room  to  the  door  without  being  heard.  The  door  leads 
to the main room of the hut where the servants stand guard.
Ultimately,  how  it  plays  out  from  here  is  down  to  the 
Keeper. Some points to bear in mind are what the time was 
when  the  investigators  entered  the  hut  and  how  long  they 
have till sundown—given the time needed to break free. Then 
there is the matter of Turner and his gang in the next room. If 
the prisoners are found to have broken free, they won’t have 
any hesitation using force to subdue them. If they break free 
into  the  daylight,  it’s  down  to  Carl  and  the  survey  team  to 
stop them, as Turner and his men won’t pursue in daylight. 
Escaping from the site will result in a hunt to the death, as 
the  undead  servants  can’t  run  the  risk  of  the  investigators 
escaping when they are so close to completing their goal.

If the investigators don’t manage to break free they are 
taken down to the lake when night falls to be converted to 
undying servants; see The Lake (see page 358). 

360 

Call of CthulhuA More Cautious Approach
Wise  investigators  may  watch  the  site  for  a  while  and  get  a 
better idea of what is going on. Over the course of the remain-
ing day, they will see the undead servants (all except Turner 
and his men—they wait till dark in the hut) walking purpose-
fully around the site, carrying tools and ropes to the pit. From 
within  the  pit  they  can  hear  the  sound  of  working  and,  by 
sunset, the servants will have built an elaborate pulley system 
above the pit that snakes from the site to edge of the nearby 
lake. Soon after, as night falls, the workers, assisted by Turner 
and his crew, begin to operate the pulley, using the truck to 
pull out a pale blue-colored crystal. It almost seems as if there 
is a source of light shining deep within the crystal. 

If the investigators don’t intervene, the workers will drag 
the crystal to the lake and call forth Gla'aki, who rises from 
the waters, grasps the crystal and begins to drain the power 
from it. The crystal shines with a bright blue light (as seen 
the previous night, after the explosion) that becomes pain-
ful to watch after a few seconds. With a flash, the light finally 
dies and Gla'aki thrashes in the water. With a bellowing roar, 
it sinks slowly beneath the waves and the undead servants 
return to the dig site, full of pleasure for having fulfilled the 
dreams  of  their  god.  Investigators  witnessing  this  should 
make appropriate Sanity rolls for seeing Gla'aki.

They will collect their prisoners and head to the lake to 
convert them before they join their god in the depths of the 
black waters. 

The  investigators  could  wait  until  nightfall  (although 
most  likely  being  unaware  of  the  fact 