). Subsequently, however, 
numerous manuscripts purporting to be    
translations have appeared, with the 
Winters-Hall version foremost among 
them. Winters-Hall suggests that the 
Shards are none other than the writings 
of the elder things, buried when England 
was still part of the super continent of 
Pangaea. Speculation against this theory 
has arisen from unnamed sources who 
contest that the script is that of the 
Great Race of Yith.

Eltdown Shards 
English, by Rev. Arthur Brooke Winters-Hall, 1912
Questionable  translation  of  mysterious  hieroglyphs  found 
on clay fragments in southern England, in an edition of 350 
pamphlets,  64  pages.  Tells  of  beings  that  could  exchange 
minds with others across space and time. 

Sanity Loss: 1D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+8 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 33
Study: 6 weeks
Suggested Spells: Contact Yithian.

G’harne Fragments
English, by Sir Amery Wendy-Smith, 1919 (pub: 1931)
Scholarly study and translation of shards inscribed with cu-
rious dot patterns. Discusses the lost city of G’harne in great 
detail, including its location. The shards were discovered by 
Windrop in North Africa. The original edition was 958 cop-
ies, printed at the author’s expense as a humble sixteenmo 
(4.5" × 5.75"). 

Sanity Loss: 1D10
Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+7 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 30
Study: 12 weeks
Suggested Spells: Contact Chthonian, Contact Elder Thing, 
Contact Shudde M’ell, Red Sign of Shudde M’ell.

The King in Yellow
English, translator unknown, c. 1895
The original is in French, apparently, but that edition was 
seized and destroyed by the Third Republic just after pub-
lication. The English edition is a thin black octavo volume, 
across the front cover of which is embossed a large Yellow 
Sign.  Until  the  book  has  been  read,  the  Sign  has  no  effect 
on  the  viewer,  except  to  imbue  a  sense  of  curiosity.  After 
reading the book (or after having contact with anything or 
anyone from Carcosa), viewing the sign costs 0/1D6 Sanity 
points to see (for one time only). The text is an ambiguous, 
dreamlike  play  that  opens  readers  to  madness.  Uniquely, 
readers cannot opt to disbelieve what is written here. Those 
of an artistic bent will feel compelled to reread the play. If 
the book results in insanity, the reader should become ob-
sessed with Carcosa and the King in Yellow (see Yellow Sign, 
page 322). 

Sanity Loss: 1D10 
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+4 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 15
Study: 1 week
Suggested Spells: none.

Liber Ivonis, Livre d’Ivon—see Book 
of Eibon

228 

Call of CthulhuBeast (Summon/Bind Hunting Horror), Command 
Star  Walker  (Summon/Bind  Dimensional  Sham-
bler), Enchant Knife, Enchant Pipes. 

Nameless Cults 
Three versions follow:

Unausprechlichen Kulten

German, by Friedrich Wilhelm von Junzt, 1839
Properly  known  as  Das  Buch  von  den  unaussprechlichen 
Kulten.  A  quarto,  possibly  printed  in  Hamburg.  This  vol-
ume, long referred to as the Black Book, tells of von Junzt’s 
connections  to  various  cults  and  secret  societies.  Other 
editions are rumored. Six copies are known to be in major 
libraries in Europe and America