ifficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: keep on the right route; use the 
sun and stars to identify compass positions; map a 
small area of terrain.

i  Hard  difficulty:  head  in  the  right  direction  when 
there  is  no  clear  route  or  landmarks;  map  a  large 
area of complex terrain.

Pushing examples: getting the map out and delaying while 
you attempt to work out where you are; going back to where 
you started from and trying again.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: you get lost 
and find yourself being watched or ambushed by a bear; you 
go round and round in circles, and your companions stop 
following you (you’re on your own now…); you mistake the 
stars, and rather than getting away from the cultists' search 
parties, you end up back at the cult’s hidden base.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
throws away the map (as happens in The Blair Witch Project) 
and follows their intuition. Their intuition does not work.

Occult (05%)
The  user  recognizes  occult  paraphernalia,  words  and  con-
cepts, as well as folk traditions, and can identify grimoires 
of  magic  and  occult  codes.  The  occultist  is  familiar  with 
the  families  of  secret  knowledge  passed  down  from  Egypt 
and Sumer, from the Medieval and Renaissance West, and 
perhaps from Asia and Africa as well. 

Comprehending certain books may provide percentiles 
of  Occult.  This  skill  does  not  apply  to  spells,  books,  and 
magic of the Cthulhu Mythos, although worshipers of the 
Great Old Ones often adopt occult ideas. 

Whether non-Mythos magic is real or fraudulent in your 
game is for the Keeper to determine (see Chapter 9: Magic).

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: recall information from folklore 
or occult theories; understand the meaning of tarot 
cards or other divination techniques.

i  Hard difficulty: identify rare or unique occult tomes; re-
call the finer details of secret occult practices and rituals.

Pushing  examples:  taking  more  time  to  study  the  site  or 
item;  conducting  further  research;  consulting  another 
expert; purging oneself and undertaking extreme personal 
preparation in advance of ritual performance.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: information 
is misremembered, and the ritual is performed incorrectly 
with disastrous consequences (perhaps the house is burned 
to  the  ground);  in  preparing  the  circle  of  protection,  you 
use  the  wrong  ingredients,  and  rather  than  ward  off  the 
spirits you genuinely summon something malevolent; your 
research  has  uncovered  a  hitherto  unknown  Mythos  link, 
and your realization shatters your mind (SAN loss).

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, this is likely 
to manifest in some form on obsession: perhaps the inves-
tigator tattoos occult symbols upon his or her cheeks and 
palms, or cannot act without first using a scrying crystal to 
divine their future.

70 

Call of Cthulhuinitely and insidiously; for years perhaps, until events or an-
other Persuade turn the target’s mind in another direction. 
Persuade may be used for bargaining, to haggle the price 
of an item or service down. If successful, the seller is thor-
oughly convinced that they have struck a good deal. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
See  Charm,  Fast  Talk,  Intimidate,  and  Persuade  Skills: 
Difficulty Levels, page 93. 

Pushing  examples:  getting  close  and  personal  to  advance 
your  argument  or  appeal  to  the  target’s  reason;  demon-
strating through logical reasoning and examples