this is the base chance of success in that skill, and any points 
allocated to that skill are added to this base number.

Write down the total points for each skill on the investi-
gator sheet (the points you’ve allocated plus the base chance 
printed on the investigator sheet). The sheet also has space 
to write in the half and fifth values for each skill, allowing 
you  to  reference  them  quickly  in  the  middle  of  a  game. A 
Quick Reference Chart for half and fifth values can be found 
on page 49. It is advised that you allocate occupation skill 
points and then personal interest skill points before writing 
in the half and fifth values alongside the full value for each 
skill, as personal interest skill points can be used to bolster 
occupation skills as well as other non-occupation skills (see 
Personal Interests following).

Personal Interests 
Investigators also draw upon experience, skills, and knowl-
edge  gained  from  hobbies  and  other  non-professional  ac-
tivities, called personal interests. Multiply the investigator’s 
INT × 2 and allot the points to any skills (which can include 
adding further points to occupation skills), except Cthulhu 
Mythos (unless otherwise agreed with the Keeper). 

Write down the total points for each skill on the investigator 
sheet (the points you’ve allocated plus the base chance printed 
on the investigator sheet). The sheet also has space to write in 
the half and fifth values for each skill, allowing you to reference 
them quickly in the middle of a game. A Quick Reference Chart 
for half and fifth values can be found on page 49. 

Weapons and Firearm skills
Fighting  and  Firearms  skills,  and  their  various  specializa-
tions, allow an investigator to use weapons. Personal interest 
or  occupation  skill  points  (if  applicable)  may  be  spent  to 
raise any of these skills. When an occupation includes the 
skill of Fighting or Firearms, and no specialization is speci-
fied, it is up to the player to choose one or more specializa-
tions of that skill (see Chapter 4: Skills).

When Choosing an  
Occupation, there are 
Some Things to Consider.
Try to have a picture in your mind about who and what 
your investigator is—your character concept. Look for 
occupations that suit this concept and add color to it. 
Remember, rolling up an investigator is all about build-
ing up a story of who you want to play in the game. 
Your characteristics, occupation, sex, and age all help 
to establish a fully rounded, ‘breathing’ investigator.

Look through the skills associated with each occu-
pation and see which of these you like the most. Cer-
tain skills are likely to appeal to you more. Perhaps you 
want your investigator to be a man of action, leading 
you to choose an occupation with skills like Fighting, 
Climb, and Throw. Alternatively you might decide to 
create a more studious investigator, with skill in Library 
Use, Spot Hidden, and Psychology. 

Also,  you  might  want  to  consider  your  investiga-
tor’s  occupation  and  skill  set  in  relation  to  the  other 
players  and  what  kind  of  investigators  they  will  be 
playing. Creating a balance of occupations means that 
the group has a good mix of skills that will benefit ev-
eryone. Depending on the style of game and scenario 
you  will  be  playing,  your  Keeper  might  have  certain 
occupations in mind for you to play. Discuss your ideas 
with the other players in order to build the most appro-
priate group of investigators for your game. After all, it 
will be somewhat strange for everyone to turn up with 
musicians when the scenario is set in the Antarctic! 

Remember,  it’s  not  what  your  investigator  can  or 
can’t do, it’s how you decide to ‘play’ your character 
that is really important, and that, above all, will often 
determine your enjoyment of the game! 

Credit Rating
An  investigator