 is firmly tied to a 
specific event, nor can it undo a Sanity loss or undo insanity.
Alternative names: Befuddle, Dumbfound, Mystify.

Clutch of Nyogtha
Cost: 1+ magic points equal to twice the damage delivered 
that round; 1D20 Sanity points
Casting time: Instantaneous

The caster must spend 1 magic point to begin the spell and the 
target must be within conversational distance. For the spell to 
take effect the caster must succeed in an opposed POW roll 
with the target. If the caster wins the roll, the target feels as 
though a large hand or tentacle is crushing his or her heart, 
losing 1D3 hit points for each combat round that the spell is 
in effect. While under such attack, the target is temporarily 
paralyzed, as though having a heart attack. In the round that 
the accumulated damage from this spell reduces hit points to 
zero,  the  target’s  chest  ruptures  and  bursts,  and  the  target’s 
smoking heart appears in the hand of the caster.

Each round the spell lasts, the caster must spend magic 
points equal to twice the number of hit points in damage. 
The caster must concentrate on the spell each round that it 
is to remain in effect and the caster must defeat the target in 
an opposed POW roll each round. If the caster is distracted 
or if the target successfully resists, the spell ends. Any dam-
age already done remains.

Alternative  names:  The  Vile  Wrench,  The  Insidious 

Wrath of the Dark Wizard, Ye Loathsome Tickle.

Consume Likeness
Cost:  10  magic  points  every  6  hours  of  casting;  5  POW; 
1D20 Sanity points
Casting time: several days

The caster can assume the living likeness of a person freshly 
dead,  as  seen  by  eye,  video  camera,  X-ray,  etc.  The  victim 
may be no more than 15 SIZ points different from the caster. 

For  the  next  few  days  the  caster  consumes  the  victim  and 
works the spell, expending 10 magic points every six hours 
and permanently sacrificing 5 POW points. The caster could 
consume several likenesses and thereby take on several guis-
es. When a victim is consumed, the caster loses 1D20 Sanity 
points. This spell is known by many serpent people.

Once  the  spell  is  complete,  the  caster  takes  on  the  ap-
pearance of the victim at will, for as long as desired. To the 
keen observer, the shadow of the caster remains as his or her 
original (not that of the consumed). Similarly, the caster’s 
skills and memories remain intact—the victim’s are gone.

Upon  losing  one  or  more  hit  points,  the  caster’s  orig-
inal form is resumed. To go from an assumed form to the 
original form takes 20 seconds. The original form must be 
reverted to before another form can be assumed. To go from 
the original to an assumed form takes 1D3 minutes.

Alternative names: The Snake Skin Cloak, The Valusian 

Mantle, The Gift of Yig.

Deeper Version
Casters are sometimes able to recollect memories and 
thoughts of those who have been consumed. This is 
usually a specific piece of information that was known 
to  the  unfortunate  target  of  the  spell.  An  additional 
magic point must be spent together with a roll under 
the caster’s POW for each additional piece of informa-
tion sought.

Contact Spells
Cost: Refer to specific spell
Sanity cost: 1D3 (plus more to view the monster)
Casting time: 1D6 + 4 rounds 

Contact spells are divided into two separate groups: spells 
concerned with contacting Mythos creatures and monsters, 
and spells for contacting Mythos deities (see Contact Deity). 
Using  Contact  spells  a  cultist  could  get  in 