 5 attacks per round:
Attacks per round: 5. It may only use its Trample attack once per round.

Then the creature’s basic Fighting attack is figured. Its most common attack is tentacle, so this value is used, setting its 
Fighting attack to 80%. Advice is offered on how to describe the attacks, centering around, but not limited to, the use of the 
tentacles. The Keeper may use the tentacles every time, but may feel this is repetitive and may prefer to use kicks or describe 
the dark young’s bulk simply crushing opponents. 

A key feature of the dark young’s attacks is that it can grab investigators with its tentacles. This can be done using a 
fighting maneuver and the use of its Fighting skill, so there is no need for an additional skill to accommodate this. The 
effect on STR of the strength drain is multiplied by 5; 1D3 gives a range of 1 to 3, multiplied by 5 would give a range of 5 
to 15, so this is set to 1D10+5. 
Fighting attacks: In its masses of tentacles, a typical dark young has four thicker sinuous tentacles with which it attacks. 
Each of these thicker tentacles can strike out to injure. It may also kick out with its hooves or simply crush or strike with 
its massive bulk.
Grab (fighting maneuver): The dark young can use its tentacles to grab and capture up to four victims. If a victim is 
grabbed, he or she is held to one of the horrible sucking mouths and drained of 1D10+5 STR per round. This STR loss 
cannot be restored. While being drained, a victim is capable only of ineffectual writhing and screaming. 
Trample: The dark young can also trample with its massive hooves, typically hooting and bellowing as it rears up then 
attempts to trample as many opponents as it can (up to 1D4 humans if they are situated close together).
Fighting 80% (40/16), damage bonus
Grab (fighting maneuver) grabbed and held for 1D10 + 5 STR drain per round 
Trample 40% (20/8), damage 2D6 + damage bonus 

393 

chapter 16: APPENDICES 
The Idea roll was commonly used to put the players back 
on  track  in  older  scenarios.  Two  aspects  of  the  7th  Edition 
rules come into play here. First, remember not to ask for rolls 
to uncover clues that you want to players to find (see Obvi-
ous Clues, page 202). Secondly, the new Idea roll (see page 
199) has a far more significant effect on play than in previous 
editions and should only be used occasionally.

G  An  Intelligence  (INT)  roll  may  be  called  for  by  the 
Keeper when an investigator is attempting to solve an 
intellectual puzzle of some kind. 

G  An Idea roll is made when the players have become 
stuck  at  a  point  in  the  investigation;  perhaps  they 
have missed a vital clue, or just don’t know what to 
do next and the game has stalled. The Idea roll allows 
the Keeper to get the investigation back on track.

Skill Modifiers
Where small skill modifiers (of +5 or less) are listed these may 
be ignored. 

To  approximate  this,  assume  that  a  bonus  die  means  a 

+20% chance, and that a penalty die means a –20% chance.
If a listed modifier seems significant to the Keeper, con-
sider either changing the difficulty level or applying a penalty 
or  bonus  die  depending  on  the  situation.  This  may  cause 
some skill rolls to become less likely to succeed, but players 
now have the option to push the roll.

An entry in the scenario "Tatters of the King" reads, “If 
the interview is handled well and the interviewer can 
either provide some proof of their professional interest 
in the university and in the expedition, or they succeed 
in a Fast