 the game can help.

A  quick  and  easy  way  to  differentiate  between 
non-player characters is to find a portrait for each of 
them. Most published scenarios include a drawing or 
photograph of each of the important non-player char-
acters that the investigators will meet. Having a copy 
of these allows you to show the players who they are 
speaking to. If you are running a scenario of your own 
design or one where images of the non-player charac-
ters are not provided, a quick search on the Internet 
can provide a range of suitable character portraits for 
you to print and cut out. Try looking at websites fea-
turing people of the period in which the game is set. 
For example, galleries of 1920s film stars are available 
and provide a perfect resource for Keepers.

Prepare a List of Names
You will have to name non-player characters during play. It’s 
a good idea to have a list of names ready so that you can pick 
one with ease rather than fumbling around only to come up 
with a common name such as “Bob”. Fumbling for a name 
is  a  sure  sign  to  the  players  that  the  character  is  not  cen-
tral to the plot, and you should try to make all non-player 
characters feel equally real. Using names appropriate for the 
place and period gives an increased sense of realism. Once 
you’ve decided that the owner of the Castle Stahleck is called 
Fabian Azoth, you simply make a quick note alongside the 
name on your list for future reference.

Pick-Up Non-Player Characters
As  previously  stated,  players  play  their  investigators  and 
you play the non-player characters. Occasionally a situation 
may present itself in which it is possible to hand a group of 
non-player characters over to the players’ control, thus al-
lowing the non-player characters to be played by the players 
(temporarily replacing their investigators) for a time. 

191 

chapter 10: playing the game192 

Call of CthulhuThe  investigators  have  managed  to  persuade  the 
police  that  a  SWAT  team  is  required  to  assault  the 
cult’s hideout. Rather than simply telling the players 
the  outcome  of  the  operation,  the  Keeper  decides  it 
would be fun to allow the players to play members of 
the SWAT team for the duration of the mission. This 
is especially effective, since the role of the non-player 
characters  contrasts  with  that  of  the  investigators. 
Playing  a  combat-trained,  well-armed  professional 
provides  a  major  change  of  pace  to  a  player  whose 
investigator is a college professor.

Pick-up non-player characters don’t require a full char-
acter sheet; indeed, the less you give the player, the freer the 
player may feel. Sometimes it is easier to improvise around 
a simple archetype than to portray a fully detailed character. 
A simple index card with a name, profession and a few key 
characteristics or skills is enough for one scene—fill in any 
other statistics as they are called for. If it’s a combat scene 
then combat skills, weapons, and hit points should be de-
tailed in advance or quickly generated in play.

Playing a non-player character allows the player to “see” 
through the eyes of a character that is not his or her usual 
investigator and discover things that the player would oth-
erwise be unaware of. This conflict of knowledge happens 
all  the  time  in  roleplaying—every  time  the  investigators 
split up, a player may hear about things that are not being 
perceived through his or her investigator. The latter is easily 
overlooked as it can be generally assumed that fellow inves-

The Keeper gives the players some pick-up non-player 
characters  to  play—a  group  of  students  living  in  a 
shared house. The players don’t know anything about 
the house or the non-player characters, and they just 
play  the  characters 