 and dream insights, follow a darker path to 
absolute madness and, sometimes, suicide.

Some  cultists  believe  the  recipients  of  Cthulhu’s 
call  are  honored  and  should  be  held  in  high  regard, 
for they may well speak the echoes of Great Cthulhu’s 
thoughts.  Whether  there  is  intelligence  behind  such 
dream-sending or just the emanations of psychic res-
idue  infecting  the  sensitive  mind  is  unknown.  Either 
way, the results tend to the same: the human’s mind 
is  opened  to  awesome  vistas  of  inhuman  experience 
while  at  the  same  time  comprehending  the  unspeak-
able and implacable intent of dreaming Cthulhu.

The  first  time  a  person  receives  the  dreams  of 
Cthulhu they must make a Sanity roll (1/1D4 loss) and 
each night thereafter. The Keeper should determine the 
length of time over which such dream-sending occurs 
(usually  1D20  days).  As  to  outward  effect  upon  the 
character concerned, it is left to the player and Keeper 
to best decide dependent upon that character’s temper-
ament and artistic skills.

Though in millennial sleep, Cthulhu is known to send hor-
rifying dreams to mortal men, which may have tipped some 
people into madness.

SIZ 1050  DEX 105 

CON 550 

GREAT CTHULHU, Master of R’lyeh
STR 700 
POW 210  HP 160
Damage Bonus: +21D6
Build: 22
Magic Points: 42
Move: 16 Stride / 14 Swim / 12 Fly

INT 210

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 2
Fighting attacks: Cthulhu is huge and will stomp, kick, and crush 

with his feet, clawed hands and tentacles.

Scoop  (mnvr):  Each  round  1D3  investigators  are  scooped  up  in 
Cthulhu’s  flabby  claws  to  die  hideously.  If  Cthulhu  were  just 
emerging from a vast hole or if he were to stoop over, the in-
vestigators might also be attacked by Cthulhu’s facial tentacles, 
which can grab four people per round and which can penetrate 
small openings.

Fighting 100% (50/20), damage 1D6 + 21D6 damage bonus 

Scoop (mnvr) 1D3 investigators killed
Armor: 21  points  of  trans-dimensional  muck  and  muscle;  addi-
tionally, he regenerates 6 hit points per round. At 0 hit points, 
Cthulhu bursts and dissolves into a disgusting, cloying greenish 
cloud, then immediately begins to reform. He needs 1D10+10 
minutes to regain full solidity and, when he does, he then has a 
full 160 hit points again.

Spells: Knows hundreds of spells, but not Summon/Bind Night-
gaunt  and  Contact  Nodens;  he  might  impart  Contact  Deep 
Ones or Contact Cthulhu via terrifying dreams.
Sanity Loss: 1D10/1D100 Sanity points to see Cthulhu.

Despite  being  considered  the  largest  and  most  wide-
spread  Mythos  cult,  the  Cthulhu  Cult  is  believed  to 
be  heavily  fragmented;  if  the  research  and  theories 
of Professor Angell are to be taken seriously. While a 
common faith is shared, the methods, practices, and 
dogma  of  differing  sects  appear  to  be  noticeably  at 
odds  with  one  another.  While  some  work  in  silence 
and  shadows,  a  minority  of  others