 wing rather than two. They speak in great 
harsh voices. A hunting horror’s length averages forty feet.

These beings are dispelled by daylight. A strong enough 
burst of light (from a nuclear reaction, perhaps) could sear 
one  to  dust.  Hunting  horrors  move  swiftly  and  are  harri-
er-creatures for some of the gods, particularly Nyarlathotep. 
They can be summoned in their own right and sent to seek 
out blood and lives.

SPECIAL POWERS

Spells:  Hunting  horrors  have  a  25%  chance  of  knowing 
2D10 spells.

Lloigor

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 2 
Fighting  attacks:  A  hunting  horror  may  attack  with  its  bite,  its 

crushing bulk, and its tail tentacle attacks. 

Grasp  (mnvr):  The  tail  can  be  used  to  wrap  around  the  victim, 
preventing  movement.  The  hunting  horror  may  then  fly  off 
with  its  victim  or  keep  fighting.  The  victim  can  only  break 
loose  as  the  result  of  a  successful  opposed  STR  roll. When  a 
victim is caught in the tail, the hunting horror may only make 
a bite attack, nibbling at the dangling victim with a bonus die 
to hit since the victim’s arms are usually pinioned.
Fighting  65% (32/13), damage 1D6 + damage bonus 
Grasp (mnvr) target immobile and must win an opposed STR roll 

to escape 
Dodge 35% (17/7)
Armor: 9-point skin.
Sanity Points: 0/1D10 Sanity points to see a hunting horror.

Lloigor

“Invisible ones from the stars.” These latter, he said were 
definitely aliens on our earth, and the chief among them 
was called Ghatanothoa, the dark one. They sometimes 
took forms, such as the monster on the tablet—who was a 
representation of Ghatanothoa—but existed as vortices of 
power in their natural state.

—Colin Wilson, The Return of the Lloigor

The  twin  of  Zhar,  Lloigor  or  Lloigornos,  should  not  be 
confused with this race.

They  are  vortices  of  power  in  natural  form  and  com-
pletely invisible to human eyes. On rare occasions they can 
create tangible, visible bodies for themselves. Such bodies are 
monstrous and bear some resemblance to enormous reptiles, 
though  inspection  reveals  their  utter  dissimilarity  to  any 
reptiles that ever walked the face of the Earth.

The  minds  of  lloigor  are  not  divided  into  layers  of 
consciousness. Lloigor do not forget, nor do they have 
imaginations or subconscious to mislead or dis-
tract them. Their outlook of absolute pessimism 
results  in  a  pervading  atmosphere  of  gloom 
that makes lloigor minds and actions incom-
prehensible  to  humans.  Mind-contact 
with  lloigor  always  leads  to  suicidal 
depression for the human partners.

299 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsWhile in reptilian form, a lloigor has all the character-
istics listed below. When immaterial and intangible, it lacks 
the parenthesized characteristics, skills, etc., possessing only 
INT, POW, and DEX.

Spells: Lloigor know at least 1D4 spells.

averages 
200  
140 
250 
50  
100  
70 

rolls
(3D6+30 ×5)
(8D6 ×5)
(2D4 ×50)
(3D6 ×5)
(4D6+6 ×5)
(4D6 ×5)

LLOIGOR, Masters of telekinesis
char. 
(STR)*