 tents. 
One of these is a large communal tent, apparently used for 
cooking, although the stove is long since cold. The last tent 
is also comparatively large and seems to be have been used 
as  a  painting  studio.  Easels  lie  broken,  paint,  and  brushes 
appear crushed and canvases litter the floor. 

A search of the sleeping tents reveals a notebook, various 
art pads, and some partly completed oil canvases. In addition, 
a Spot Hidden roll reveals a discarded rifle and Texan hat in a 
nearby bush, next to drag marks heading northwards (in the 
direction of the dig site). This should remind the investiga-

tors of Alistair Lawson’s parting words to them from Day 1: 
Meeting the Hunting Party (see page 351) about Brian Hall. 
Looking  through  the  notebook  reveals  that  the  artists 
are from Boston and that they came here to paint for their 
art  course.  The  latest  entries  describe  frightening  dreams 
(uncannily similar to those the investigators are experienc-
ing), and how they met Brian and Arthur Hall, who claim to 
have been experiencing the same dreams. 

The  art  pads  and  canvases  show  a  range  of  paintings, 

mostly of landscapes and woodland scenes:

G An owl on a branch, peering out into the dark. 
G  A  deer  looking  through  the  trees  in  an  otherwise 

deserted wood.

G The moon shining down through the trees above. 
G A path snaking its way through the trees, the ground 

covered in dead, yellow leaves. [DREAM]

G A dilapidated old cabin, the door open and the dark 

outline of a figure within. [DREAM]

G A figure seen from behind, looking out onto the black 
waters as something horrible rises up out of the lake. 
[DREAM]

355 

chapter 15: scenariosAs the investigators enter the clearing, 
they detect the smell of death. The stench 
comes  from  a  blood-soaked  tree,  where 
impaled  through  the  chest  on  a  branch 
halfway  up  is  Christopher  Dobbs—the 
member of the gang left to guard the girl. 
Call for Sanity rolls, with 0/1D4 SAN loss 
due to the gruesome nature of the death. 
The cabin is shot through with many 
bullet  holes.    If  investigated  further,  it 
appears the bullets were fired from within.
Distracted  by  the  discovery  of  the 
body,  the  investigators  are  most  likely 
unaware  that  Harris  is  alive  within  the 
cabin.  When  he  hears  the  investigators, 
he  will  open  fire  from  inside  the  cabin 
with his shotgun (take note that shotgun 
damage is decreased with range, and that 
shotgun attacks do not impale). He yells, 
“Give her back or get the hell away!” He 
is  crazy  from  the  Dream  Call  of  Gla'aki 
and has been fending off undead servants 
throughout the night. Unless the investi-
gators can incapacitate or calm him (Ex-
treme  Persuade,  Charm,  or  Intimidate 
roll),  he  will  continue  shooting,  fearing 
the investigators are more of the horrors 
come to get him. 

If the investigators manage to pacify 
Harris,  he  will  explain  that  the  girl  is 
gone. He found Dobbs dead the previous 
evening, and he was attacked in the night 
(by the servants). Once he has said this, 
he will collapse into hysteria.

If  an  investigator  has  already  experienced  something 
similar to one of the paintings in a dream, the player con-
cerned should make a Sanity roll, losing the same amount as 
originally prompted by the dream. Apply the usual rule here 
to limit cumulative loss from one source. Thus