  in  Hamburg.  This  vol-
ume, long referred to as the Black Book, tells of von Junzt’s 
connections  to  various  cults  and  secret  societies.  Other 
editions are rumored. Six copies are known to be in major 
libraries in Europe and America. The original edition boasts 
the horrific engravings of Gunther Hasse. 

Sanity Loss: 2D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +5/+10 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 45
Study: 52 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  Approach  Brother  (Contact  Ghoul), 
Barrier  of  Naach-Tith,  Beckon  Great  One  (Contact 
Dagon),  Call  Aether  Devil  (Contact  Mi-Go),  Call 
Forth  the  Sun  (Call/Dismiss  Azathoth),  Call  Forth 
Cyaegha  (Call/Dismiss  Cyaegha),  Call  Forth  the 
Horned Man (Call/Dismiss Nyarlathotep), Call Forth 
That Which Should Not Be (Call/Dismiss Nyogtha), 
Call  Forth  the  Woodland  Goddess  (Call/Dismiss 
Shub-Niggurath),  Command  Airy  Travellers  (Sum-
mon/Bind Byakhee), Command the Trees (Summon/
Bind  Dark Young),  Command  the  Unknown  (Call/
Dismiss  Ghatanothoa),  Contact  Children  of  the 
Deep (Contact Deep Ones), Revivify (Resurrection).

Nameless Cults

English, translator unknown, published 1845
An unauthorized translation published by Bridewell of En-
gland (probably London) in an octavo edition. At least twenty 
copies are held in various collections. Badly flawed text. 

Sanity Loss: 2D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +4/+8 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 36
Study: 48 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  as  per  Unausprechlichen  Kulten,  but 
most of these spell versions are incomplete or faulty.

A play shrouded in mystery and  
sorrow, The King in Yellow appears to 
bring only madness and death to those 
who possess the volume. Although the  
playwright remains unknown, some 
maintain it was written by Christopher 
Marlowe (author of Doctor Faustus, as 
well as the lurid The Massacre at Paris). 
Apart from his known works, Marlowe is 
also famous for his mysterious death. 
An arrest warrant for Marlowe was 
issued, with no reason given other than 
allegations of blasphemy for a manuscript 
containing “vile heretical concepts”. He 
was taken for questioning, although 
(strangely) no record exists of the  
interview. Ten days later Marlowe was 
stabbed (above the right eye, killing him 
instantly) by Ingram Frizer. Some believe 
the blasphemous manuscript to be The 
King in Yellow and the real cause of 
Marlowe’s death.

Massa di Requiem Per Shuggay 
Italian, by Benvenuto Chieti Brodighera, 1768
An opera score and libretto never published and believed to 
have been performed only once. Deals with rape, incest and 
other  degradations.  Knowledgeable  musicians  pronounce 
portions  of  it  unplayable.  Copies  are  held  by  the  British 
Museum, the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris, and probably 
the Vatican’s Z-collection.

Sanity Loss: 1D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+3 percentiles 
Mythos Rating: 12
Study: 2 weeks
Suggested  Spells:  (performed  with  full  orchestra)  Call 
Azathoth is cast about midway through the third act.

Monstres and their Kynde
English, author unknown, 16th century
A single folio version of this handwritten book existed and 
that was stolen from