by one step.

Resolving each attack roll:

A Summary of  
Firearms Modifiers: Bonus 
and Penalty dice

Difficulty Level

Bonus Die

Penalty Die

Regular: Normal 
range

Aiming for 1 round

Hard: Long range

Point blank

Extreme: Very long 
range

Large target (Build 4+)

Target diving for 
cover

Fast-moving target 
(MOV 8+)

Partial (50%+) 
concealment

Small target (Build –2)

Multiple handgun 
shots

Loading and firing 
one shot in a single 
round

Firing into melee

G  If  the  attack  roll  is  successful:  half  of  the  shots 
fired hit the target—roll damage for half of the shots 
(round down, minimum of one). Subtract any armor 
from each shot.

G   If the attack is an Extreme success: all shots fired 
hit the target, the first half (round down, minimum of 
one) of which impale. Subtract any armor from each 
shot. As for all firearm attacks, if the difficulty level 
of the shot was Extreme, the best possible result is a 
successful hit and not an impale. 

Malfunctions: Any attack roll result equal to or higher than 
the  firing  weapon’s  malfunction  number  indicates  that  the 
weapon malfunctions and does not fire.

410 

Call of CthulhuTable III:  
Other Forms of Damage

Injury

Damage

Examples

Minor: a person could survive 
numerous occurrences of this level 
of damage.

1D3

Punch, kick, head-butt, mild acid, breathing smoky atmosphere*, a 
thrown fist-size rock, falling (per 10 feet) onto soft swamp.

Moderate: might cause a major 
wound; it would take a few such 
attacks to kill.

1D6

Falling (per 10 feet) onto grass, club, strong acid, breathing water*, 
exposure to vacuum*, small caliber bullet, arrow,  
fire (burning torch).

Severe: likely to cause a major 
wound. One or two occurrences 
would render a person uncon-
scious or dead.

1D10

.38 caliber bullet, falling (per 10 feet) onto concrete, axe, fire 
(flamethrower, running through a burning room), being 6 to 9 
yards from an exploding hand grenade or stick of dynamite,  
a mild poison**.

Deadly: the average person has a 
50% chance of dying.

2D10

Hit by a car at 30mph, being 3 to 6 yards from an exploding hand 
grenade or stick of dynamite, a strong poison**.

Terminal: outright death is likely.

4D10

Hit by a speeding car, being within 3 yards of an exploding hand 
grenade or stick of dynamite, a lethal poison**.

Splat: outright death almost 
certain.

8D10

Being involved in a high-speed head-on collision,  
being hit by a train.

*Asphyxiation and drowning: a CON roll should be made each round; once a CON roll is failed, damage is sustained each 
round thereafter until death or until the victim is able to breathe. If the character is in a state of physical exertion, a Hard success 
is required on the CON roll.

**Poisons: a roll equal to or less than one-fifth of CON will halve damage from poisons. Poisons may cause a variety of 
additional  symptoms  including:  stomach  pains,  vomiting,  diarrhea,  chills,  sweats,  cramps,  jaundice,  altered  heart  rate, 
impaired vision, convulsions, unconsciousness and paralysis. It is up to the Keeper whether the symptoms permit the victim 
to act or not, or to act with a penalty die or an increased level of difficulty.

In certain circumstances, Keepers may allow a poison's effects to be shaken off if the CON roll is a critical success.

411 

chapter 16: APPENDICESCombat Flow Chart

Establish the order of attack

Surprise Attack

Rank in DEX Order:

Highest goes first.

Readied Firearms go