  some  may 
be of extra-cosmic origin. 
The  Outer  Gods  rule 
the universe and have 
little  to  do  with 
humanity,  except 
for  Nyarlathotep. 
Humans  med-
dling  with  these 
entities  suffer  for 
it,  usually  ending 
in  madness  or 
death.  Names  for 
a  few  Outer  Gods 
are  known.  They 
appear  almost  to 
be  true  gods,  as 
opposed 
the 
alien horror of the 
Great  Old  Ones, 
some  may 
and 
personify  a  cosmic 
principle.  Only  a  few 
these  deities  seem 
to  take  interest  in  human 
affairs, or even to acknowledge 
the  existence  of  the  human  race. 
When they do, they often are shown try-
ing to break through cosmic walls or dimensions 
to wreak new destruction. All the races and lesser deities 
of  the  Mythos  acknowledge  the  Outer  Gods,  and  many 
worship them.

of 

to 

The Outer Gods are controlled to some extent by their 
messenger and soul, Nyarlathotep. When the Outer Gods 
are discomforted, Nyarlathotep investigates. Azathoth, the 
daemon sultan and ruler of the cosmos, writhes mindlessly 
to the piping of a demon flute at the center of the universe. 
Yog-Sothoth, either a second-in-command or co-ruler, is 
coterminous with all time and space, but locked somehow 
outside the mundane universe. Yog-Sothoth can be sum-
moned to this side only through the use of mighty spells, 
whereas Azathoth theoretically might be met by traveling 

25 

chapter 2: h.p. Lovecraft and the cthulhu mythosfar  enough  through  space.  A  group  of  Outer  Gods  and 
bizarre beings dance slowly around Azathoth, but none are 
named.

The  term  Elder  Gods  sometimes  refers  to  another 
race  of  gods,  neutral  to  and  possibly  rivals  of  the  Outer 
Gods. The Elder Gods, if they exist, do not seem to be as 
dangerous  to  humanity  as  Azathoth  and  its  ilk,  but  they 
have even less contact with humanity. Nodens is the best-
known Elder God.

Outer  and  Elder  Gods  sometimes  have  been  lumped 
together  and  confusingly  called  the  Other  Gods,  though 
primarily gods of the outer planets and not of our Earth. 
They would seem seldom called here, however when they 
do appear they are second to nothing in horror. (And, just 
to  thoroughly  confuse  you,  a  set  of  minor  Outer  Gods 
are known collectively as the Lesser Other Gods!) Species 
associated  with  these  deities  (shantaks,  hunting  horrors, 
servitors  of  the  Outer  Gods,  dark  young  of  Shub-Niggu-
rath) are correspondingly rare on Earth.

The  Great  Old  Ones  are  not  as  supernatural  as  the 
Outer  Gods,  but  are  nonetheless  god-like  and  terrible  to 
human  eyes.  Humans  are  much  more  likely  to  worship 
Great Old Ones, who are comparatively near at hand and 
who  occasionally  participate  in  human  affairs  or  contact 
individual humans, than they are to worship Outer Gods. 
Entire  clans  or  cults  may  secretly  worship  a  Great  Old 
One. Lone madmen, on the other hand, seem to prefer the 
Outer Gods. Beings serving the Great Old Ones frequently 
inhabit the remote fastness of the Earth. Investigators most 
often encounter their worshipers and alien servants.

The Great Old Ones themselves appear