 scenario is set 
can  be  useful  in  showing  locations  and  people.  Postcards 
from antique fairs might also be used. 

If the setting is more modern, the Keeper might prepare 
a sound file to be played when a recorded message is discov-
ered, or perhaps a short video appropriate to the scenario. 
The possibilities are endless; whole “dummy” websites could 
be created for the purpose of a specific investigation.

Whether  you  have  time  to  create  such  handouts  from 
scratch, go searching for them or simply use the ones pro-
vided  in  published  scenarios,  the  use  of  handouts  greatly 
complements  the  game.  Have  fun  and  see  what  you  can 
come up with.

Listen to what the players say and how they respond. If 
they are excited when you bring out a floor plan with count-
ers or miniatures to map the action then do it more often. 
If  they  study  every  detail  of  each  handout  then  use  more 
of them. Usually you’ll have a mix of players and they will 
respond to a mix of approaches. Don’t sweat it; keep things 
in balance and just try to make a good game.

Using the Rules
The rules in this book are intended to be flexible enough to 
cope with every eventuality.
The rules, in brief, are:
Regardless of the situation, the player’s intention defines 
the goal, and a skill or characteristic is chosen that best suits 
the situation. 

If the situation is reliant upon on external circumstances 
rather than an investigator’s actions then a Luck roll is used.

A Guide to Using the Rules for           
Specific Situations
Here are some examples of goals and how a Keeper might 
use the rules to resolve them. These are not spot rules and 
are only provided as suggestions to help Keepers understand 
how skill rolls can be used with a variety of goals.

Winning at a casino: 

Most  games  at  a  casino  are  based  on  luck;  however,  the 
odds are always stacked in favor of the house, so a straight 

204 

Call of CthulhuLuck roll would be generous. Perhaps this is one situation in 
which you could ask for a roll against half the investigator’s 
Luck score. A custom rule might be appropriate if you want 
to simulate the feeling of gambling. You might decide to call 
for  three  Luck  rolls  over  the  course  of  the  evening  at  the 
casino and set out the possible outcomes before rolling. Let 
the player nominate the stakes they are risking. If the player 
wins all three Luck rolls, he or she wins big, multiplying the 
stake by ten. If two out of three are achieved, the player wins 
a little. If one is achieved, the player breaks even. If all three 
are lost, the player ends up deep in debt. 

Ambushing an opponent: 

The investigator wants to gain concealment and attack with 
an  advantage.  If  the  investigator  makes  a  winning  Stealth 
skill  roll  (opposed  by  the  enemy’s  Spot  Hidden  skill)  you 
might grant a bonus die to the player’s first attack, or simply 
allow an automatic success.

Swimming to safety (drowning): 

An  investigator  has  fallen  into  turbulent  water  and  must 
swim to safety or drown. The Keeper calls for a swim roll 
with  the  goal “swim  to  safety.”  If  the  player  loses,  then  no 
progress is made and water may be inhaled; the player must 
make a CON roll or his or her investigator will suffer 1D6 
damage per round (see Other Forms of Damage, page 205). 
The situation demands a pushed roll—the only alternative 
is  that  the  investigator  gives  up  and  drowns.  If  the  player 
misses the pushed swim roll, the investigator is battered and 
half-drowned,  taking  1D6  damage 