 might  be  useful  to  the 
investigator’s current situation or line of research.

To research a specific piece of information, the investi-
gator spends 1D4 game hours poring through the book. The 
player then rolls 1D100; if the result is equal to or less than 

the  book’s  Cthulhu  Mythos  Rating,  the  investigator  finds 
the fact or an allusion to the fact (the Keeper can express the 
information as clearly or obscurely as desired). If the roll is 
failed, either the book does not hold the information or the 
reader failed to locate it. The user of the book will want to 
note what was or was not contained.

Increase of Other Skills
Conducting  a  full  study  of  a  tome  may  grant  an  increase 
in other skills as well as Cthulhu Mythos. After a full study 
of a tome, the reader automatically gains a skill tick for the 
language in which the book is written, and so their skill in 
that language may improve in the usual way during the next 
investigator development phase (see page 94). The Keeper 
should also determine whether a particular tome will pro-
vide  additional  benefits  to  the  reader.  Increases  should  be 
either  limited  to  +1D6  to  +1D10  skill  points  per  skill,  or 
simply awarded as a skill tick to be rolled during the next 
investigator  development  phase.  Other  skills  that  may  be 
improved as a result of reading Mythos tomes include (but 
are not limited to) History, Archaeology, Anthropology, Oc-
cult, Astronomy, and other sciences like Chemistry, Biology, 
and Physics. 

Occult Books
The ideas for handling the information in Mythos books can 
also apply to non-Mythos books as well. An occult book by 
definition grants points to the Occult skill after being read. 
An occult book does not contain knowledge increasing the 
Cthulhu Mythos skill—otherwise it would be classified as a 
Mythos book. Some occult books may well include discus-
sions of non-Mythos magic (see Non-Mythos Magic, page 
180), including instructions for spells. An occult book may 
cost Sanity points if its contents warrant it.

175 

chapter 9: magicUsing Magic
Wisely did Ibn Schacabao say, that happy is the tomb where 
no wizard hath lain, and happy the town at night whose 
wizards are all ashes.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Festival

Increasing the Cthulhu Mythos skill widens the horizons of 
the student but chips away at mental reserves (reducing max-
imum  Sanity  points).  However,  learning  about  the  Mythos 
may also let the scholar change reality in specific ways. These 
“packets of information” are organized as spells. They require 
activation, measured in the game by Magic points.

Learning a Spell
A selection of spells for the game is presented alphabetically 
in Chapter 12: Grimoire.

Learning  a  Mythos  spell  does  not  cost  Sanity  points; 

however, casting a Mythos spell does.

Any individual can learn a spell. Studying the Mythos is 
the last thing a person should do, since increasing Mythos 
knowledge  always  brings  the  character  closer  and  closer 
to  the  time  when  insanity  or  the  Mythos  stakes  its  claim. 
Sometimes circumstances demand such sacrifice.

Knowledge of a spell can be transferred in three ways, listed 
below. Learning from a book is by far the most common method.

Magic Points (MP)
Magic points must (in most cases) be expended to cast spells, 
as  well  as  to  energize  artifacts,  power  magical  gates,  and 
so  on. An  investigator  begins  the  game  with  Magic  points 
equal to one-fifth of his or her POW; however, cultists and