 performing the ma-
neuver and the target: If attacker is smaller then they take 1 
penalty die for each point of difference in Build. If difference 
is 3 or more, the maneuver is impossible.

2. Make the attack roll: Same as for a regular Fighting attack 
(Brawling  or  appropriate  fighting  specialization  skill).  The 
opponent should choose to either dodge or fight back as they 
would for a normal attack:

G  If the target is dodging: Roll Fighting skill vs. Dodge 
skill.  If  the  character  performing  the  maneuver 
achieves a higher level of success than the character 
dodging,  the  maneuver  is  successful  (if  tied,  the 
target is able to dodge the maneuver).

G  If  the  target  is  fighting  back:  Roll  Fighting  skill  vs. 
Fighting skill. If the character fighting back achieves 
a higher level of success, the maneuver fails and the 
opponent inflicts damage on the character performing 
the maneuver (if tied, the maneuver is successful). 
G  The target of an attack may use a maneuver of their 
own: Resolve as for fighting back, but apply the effect 
of their maneuver instead of inflicting damage.

3. A successful maneuver allows the character to achieve 
one goal (page 105).

Other Combat Situations

Outnumbered
Once  a  character  has  either  fought  back  or  dodged  once  in 
the present combat round, all subsequent attacks on them are 
made with one bonus die.

Characters and monsters that have more than one attack 
per round may also dodge or fight back that number of times 
before the bonus die is applied. Note that some Mythos enti-
ties can never be outnumbered by investigators.

Ranged and Thrown Attacks 
Ranged missile attacks (such as bows) are treated like firearms 
(target has the option of Diving for Cover, see page 113).

Thrown weapons may be opposed with the Dodge skill in 
the  same  way  as  Fighting  attacks  (see  Resolving  a  Fighting 
Attack Made Against a Target that is Dodging, page 103).

408 

Call of CthulhuA  character  may  not  choose  the  option  of  fighting  back 
against a ranged (missile) or thrown weapon attack unless he 
or she is already within close physical proximity to the attacker 
(within a fifth of their DEX in feet).

Half  the  attacker’s  damage  bonus  is  applied  to  thrown 
weapons  and  missile  weapons  which  rely  directly  on  the 
user’s strength. Thus this applies to bows and slings but not 
to crossbows.

To resolve a ranged or thrown attack, the Keeper should set 
a difficulty level as for a firearm attack (see Firearms Difficulty 
Levels, page 112).

Escaping Close Combat
On  their  turn  in  the  order  of  combat,  providing  a  character 
has  an  escape  route  and  is  not  physically  restrained,  their 
action can be used to flee melee combat. 

Armor 
Armor  reduces  the  damage  received:  deduct  the  number  of 
armor points from the damage.

Summary of  
Firearms Combat

To resolve a firearms attack, make a 1D100 roll and compare 
the result with the attacker’s Firearms skill (using the appro-
priate specialization). The firearms roll is not opposed. The 
difficulty level is determined by the range, with various other 
factors granting either penalty or bonus dice. A failure never 
deals damage.

Readied Firearms: Shoot at DEX + 50.

Armor Examples:

Heavy leather jacket

WWI helmet

1" Hardwood

Present U.S. Helmet

Heavy Kevlar Vest

Military Body Armor

1.5" bulletproof glass

1" Steel plate

Large sand bag

1 point

2 points

3 points

5 points

8 points

12 points

15 points

19 points

20 points

Firearms Difficulty 
Levels

The difficulty level of a firearms skill roll is always set accord-
