rown Weapons
Ranged missile attacks (such as bows) are treated like firearms 
(target has the option of Diving for Cover, page 113).

Thrown weapons may be opposed with the Dodge skill 
in the same way as Fighting attacks (see Resolving a Fighting 
Attack Made Against a Target that is Dodging, page 103).

A character may not choose the option of fighting back 
against a ranged (missile) or thrown weapon attack unless he 
or she is within one-fifth of their DEX in feet near the attacker.
Half  the  attacker’s  damage  bonus  is  applied  to  thrown 
and missile weapons that rely on the user’s strength—this 
applies to bows and slings but not to crossbows.

To resolve a ranged or thrown attack, the Keeper should 
set  a  difficulty  level  as  for  a  firearm  attack  (see  Firearms 
Difficulty Levels, page 112).

Escaping Close Combat
A  character  can  use  their  action  to  flee  melee  combat  on 
their  turn  in  the  order  of  combat,  providing  they  have  an 
escape route and are not physically restrained. 

Armor
Armor  reduces  damage  received,  whether  it  is  the  natural 
armor of some monsters, body armor worn by a character, 
or the natural defense of an obstacle between the attacker 
and  the  target.  Deduct  the  number  of  armor  points  from 
damage inflicted by attacks passing through the armor.

Note that armor will not reduce damage from magical 

attacks, poison, drowning, etc.

A deep one surprises an investigator. 

Note:  Hitting  someone  on  the  head  (when  attacking 
unseen) from the rear would automatically succeed (unless 
fumbled), whereas seizing a weapon from someone’s hand 
would only receive a bonus die.

When attacking a target that is unable to or chooses not 
to dodge or fight back, the attacker should roll their attack 
normally,  but  will  only  fail  to  hit  if  they  roll  a  fumble.  It 
should be remembered that the Keeper decides when dice 
rolls are called for. If a person doesn’t wake up, why would 
a dice roll be required to stab or shoot them in their sleep?

Once  a  surprise  attack  has  been  resolved,  the  Keeper 

should then switch to combat rounds as detailed below.

Outnumbered
When  a  character  is  outnumbered  by  the  opposition,  the 
character is at a disadvantage. Once a character has either 
fought  back  or  dodged  in  the  present  combat  round,  all 
subsequent melee attacks on them are made with one bonus 
die. This does not apply to attacks made using firearms.

Characters  and  monsters  that  have  more  than  one  at-
tack per round may also dodge or fight back that number 
of times before the bonus die is applied. Thus a ghoul with 
three attacks can fight back three times before its attackers 
gain a bonus die. Note that some Mythos entities can never 
be  outnumbered  by  investigators  (see  Chapter  14:  Mon-
sters, Beasts and Alien Gods).

Even an old piece of metal will work as armor.

108 

Call of CthulhuCombat Flow Chart

Establish the order of attack

Surprise Attack

Rank in DEX Order:

Highest goes first.

Readied Firearms go at DEX +50

Allow skill roll–does the target 
anticipate the attack?

(Spot Hidden, Listen, Psychology)

Resolve in DEX Order

a) Initiate Attack, Flee, or Maneuver
b) Defender chooses to Dodge, Fight Back, 
     or perform Maneuver.
c) Attacker & defender make opposed roll.

Yes:

No:

Use normal
DEX order
for combat.

Attack 
automatically
hits or gains
Bonus die.

Dodge
Attacker wins
with higher
level of 
success. Draw
= defender 
wins.
Both fail =
no damage
inflicted.

Fight Back