 that fellow inves-

The Keeper gives the players some pick-up non-player 
characters  to  play—a  group  of  students  living  in  a 
shared house. The players don’t know anything about 
the house or the non-player characters, and they just 
play  the  characters  as  they  see  fit.  Only  one  scene  is 
played  out,  in  which  one  of  the  pick-up  non-player 
characters  is  possessed  (at  the  Keeper’s  direction)  by 
some supernatural force and murders his companions. 
The players love the scene as it is quick and gruesome! 
What’s more, their investigators are not under threat, 
so the players can relax and enjoy the action without 
fear that their main character will die.

The players then return to playing their investiga-
tors with no idea how the pick-up non-player charac-
ters link in with their story. However, while following 
up a future lead, the investigators are invited to din-
ner by a town councilor. While roleplaying the dinner 
scene, the Keeper drops hints to the players that this 
is  the  very  house  in  which  the  earlier  murder  scene 
took place. The players know what is happening but 
their  investigators  do  not—this  dichotomy  increases 
the tension. As the penny drops, the Keeper mentions 
how quiet the councilor has become and how his face 
changes as he takes hold of the carving knife…

tigators fill each other in on what they have discovered. How 
you  and  your  players  deal  with  knowledge  gained  when 
playing  pick-up  non-player  characters  is  up  to  you.  This 
technique of playing other characters can be used to build 
tension and boost the horror. 

Making the Most of the  
Investigator’s  Backstory
The  investigator  backstory  can  be  a  springboard  for  story 
development.  Consider  how  each  investigator’s  backstory 
could drive the story forward and provide plot inspiration. 
While some backstory entries could possibly link to the sce-
nario’s central plot, the majority are more likely to form the 
basis for subplots. The players will be more involved if you 
can weave such entries into the broad story of the scenario.

The  Keeper  reviews  Harvey  Walters’  backstory  and 
occupation, and considers how they might be brought 
into the game:

“Uncle Theodore, who inspired a love of archaeol-
ogy. Harvey will prove himself a better man than his 
uncle, who was driven mad by his obsessions.”

Given  that  the  scenario  features  the  mi-go,  the 
Keeper decides that one of Uncle Theodore’s artifacts 
could be a Mist Projector (see Chapter 13: Artifacts 
and Alien Devices). Perhaps after encountering the 
mi-go, Harvey might be given an INT roll to see if he 
recognizes the artifact.
“Journalist.”
Harvey  talks  to  a  publisher  about  his  idea  for  a 
story (based upon his encounters with the mi-go). The 
publisher  mentions  it  in  passing  to  another  author 
who suspects Harvey’s tale is more fact than fiction. 
Is  this  other  author  in  league  with  the  mi-go  or  a 
potential ally?

“Handsome, well-dressed and a little overweight.”
It is not so easy to see how this can be used. Per-
haps  Harvey’s  tailor  might  be  persuaded  to  disclose 
useful information regarding his other clients.

Corrupting Backstory Entries as a 
Result of Madness
The only way to hurt a man who has lost everything is to give 
him back something broken.
—Stephen Donaldson, The Wounded Land

When  preparing  a  scenario  (or  between  sessions),  think 
about  the  investigators’  backstories  and  how  the  entries 
might  be  corrupted,  undermined  or  distorted,  given  the 
likely events of the scenario. 

193