 the reward outweighs the risk. If snubbed, 
he  will  balk  at  open  attack  for  fear  of  being  overpowered 
or arrested. Stalking and attacking an isolated investigator, 
arson of lodgings, and faking a hit and run accident in an 
automobile  are  all  within  his  capabilities.  He  is  after  the 
Witch Trial Papers, and will act against the investigators if he 
believes this is in his interest; staging break ins, following the 
investigators,  attacking  witnesses,  and  generally  making  a 
menace of himself. He will seek to steal hair or nail clippings 
for use in curses. He is a malevolent, petty soul who craves 
power and dominion over others.

371 

chapter 15: scenariosIf  chosen  as  the  culprit:  If  the  Keeper  has  chosen 
Flinders to be guilty of the theft then he will have followed 
Leiter  to  Hunter’s  apartment,  waited  until  night  and  then 
broken  in,  finding  the  now  insane  Hunter  and  taking  the 
Witch  Trial  Papers  for  himself.  He  now  has  a  tiger  by  the 
tail—strange  events  are  beginning  to  happen  around  him 
and his doom draws nigh (see Manifestations on page 379). 
Nightly he tries to discern the hidden truths concealed with-
in the papers, however he is near paralyzed in fear of what 
is recorded in the manuscripts and that his fate will be the 
same as Leiter’s. The Devil will not answer him, but sooner 
or later, something else will. 

Lucy Stone, Grieving Paramour
Stone  is  a  good-looking,  well-made  young  woman  in  her 
mid-twenties,  a  peroxide  blonde  with  a  sway  to  her  walk 
that turns heads. Despite the bloom of youth, Stone has al-
ready graduated from the school of hard knocks and has few 
illusions about the world, having been a child of the Bowery 
in New York, and having variously been a waitress, cigarette 
girl, maid, and artist’s model in a half-dozen towns and cit-
ies meandering north from her birthplace. If asked why she 
left the big city behind, she’ll smile and say knowingly, “In 
the big city, there’s a knockout on every corner, but a little 
glamor can get you places in a small town.”

She hooked up with Leiter earlier in the spring while wait-
ressing at a speakeasy called Hibb’s Roadhouse on the edge of 
Arkham.  He  was  handsome  and  clever  and  not  afraid  to  lay 
down some cash on a girl, which was all right by her. While her 
head told her she was no more than a passing thing to him, her 
heart played a different tune, and she fell for him more than 
a little. She never let this show, rightly guessing he’d drop her 
like a hot iron if he knew. This was the reason that when, as she 
will put it, “Things got twisted up,” she hung around and didn’t 
skip town straight away and still hasn’t. She wants to pay her 
last respects to Leiter and 
doesn’t  understand  why 
she is not allowed to see 
the body; after all he died 
of a heart attack, right? 

Facts and Clues

T  Stone  serves  as 
a  witness  to  the 
other 
side  of 
Charles  Leiter’s 
life.  As  Leiter 
liked  to show off 
in  private,  she 
knows  the  out-
line  of  his  book 
racket,  although 
she  paid 
little 
notice to many of the details. 

Lucy Stone

T  She knows that as well as a forger and dealer in rare 
books  (the  "no  questions  asked"  kind