 you and you can slip out unseen if 
you wish.”

This  will  probably  be  enough  to  get  the  game 

moving again.

Losing the Idea Roll—In the Thick of It
If the players lose the Idea roll they find themselves in deep 
trouble. A lost Idea roll gives the Keeper permission to put 
any of the investigators (regardless of who rolled dice) in the 

“thick  of  things.”  The  Keeper  should  consider  the  clue  on 
offer and try to come up with the worst situation in which 
the investigators might realize it. The Keeper starts the game 
again in medias res and the players must deal with the situa-
tion in which they find themselves.

You may well find that your group never resorts to using 
the Idea roll. Indeed, you may find that your group is never 
at a loose end and always have some ideas of their own as to 
how the story might proceed. Alternatively, the players may 
get stuck, but be so cautious that they refuse to call for an Idea 
roll. If this is the case, you can draw the current chapter of the 
game to a close and carry out investigator development phase 
(rolling skill improvement and so on). Then ask the players 
what their likely courses of action might now be. If you feel 
the  players  lack  direction,  you  should  insist  on  starting  the 
next part of the game with an Idea roll, using it to determine 
whether things restart well for the investigators or not.

Using the previous example, what if the Idea roll had 
been lost? The Keeper has identified a clue to give to 
the players (the shopkeeper and his link to the cult). 
The Keeper states, “You spend four weeks [Note: time 
has  been  wasted—that’s  part  of  the  consequence  of 
losing  the  Idea  roll]  going  over  previous  leads  and 
come up with nothing. As you sit in a café, you glance 
across the street and notice a bookshop that you rec-
ognize. You finish your coffee and make your way to 
the shop, intending to have another look to see if they 
have any rare tomes. You spend a while perusing the 
shelves  and  pay  little  heed  as  more  customers  enter 
the shop. Suddenly a glint of metal catches your eye 
and you realize that the customers in the shop are ap-
proaching you with curved daggers drawn! Glancing 
around you see the shopkeeper closing the blinds and 
turning the ‘Open’ sign to ‘Closed’.”

Note that the players don’t get to act or interject 
until you allow them to, at which point  the players 
are back in the story. As this scene is played out the 
Keeper makes every effort to yield sufficient informa-
tion  to  the  players  to  put  them  back  on  track.  The 
players now know the shop is run by the cult.

Luck for Non-Player Characters
If  you  decide  ahead  of  time  that  the  players  will  meet  the 
arch-villain in a warehouse, and that the investigators will 
neither  catch  nor  kill  him,  then  you  have  already  scripted 
the  events  and  the  players  will  be  no  more  than  pawns  in 
your story. Remember, Call of Cthulhu centers on a shared 
story  created  by  both  the  Keeper  and  the  players.  Avoid 
predetermining events in which the players will be involved.
However,  let  us  assume  you  want  to  do  your  best  to 
keep the arch-villain alive or out of the investigators’ hands. 
One way to achieve this outcome is to give the arch-villain 
a Luck pool—this does not guarantee escape, but it greatly 
increases the villain’s effectiveness and improves the chances 

200 

Call of Cthulhuwill know if intruders broke in through the study window 
(which you can decide has