Penalty die)
Many handguns are capable of firing 2 or 3 shots per round. 
Firing  one  shot  allows  for  a  more  careful  aim  and  steadying 
of the weapon. Firing more than one shot places speed above 
accuracy. When firing two or three shots in one round, roll for 
each shot individually, with all shots receiving one penalty die. 

Harvey is shooting a single shot from his pistol at a 
target at normal range, so the difficulty level is Reg-
ular. On the next round he fires three shots. Harvey’s 
player  rolls  for  each  shot  (at  Regular  difficulty), 
applying a penalty die to each roll.

Harvey shoots at the Deep One.

113 

chapter 6: combatFiring into Melee Combat
Combatants  in  melee  combat  are  constantly  on  the  move 
and  may  obscure  one  another.  One  penalty  die  is  applied 
when  targeting  a  combatant  involved  in  melee  combat.  A 
fumble indicates an ally has been hit. If multiple allies are 
in the line of fire, the one with the lowest Luck score is hit.

Automatic Fire
If  using  automatic  fire  an  attacker  can  make  one  pull  of 
the  trigger  in  one  combat  round.  The  automatic  weapon 
will then continue firing until the trigger is released or the 
ammunition is expended (called full auto). Some weapons 
are limited to fire a burst (i.e. 2 or 3 bullets) rather than full 
auto, while others may be switched to fire semi-automatic 
(single bullets), and/or burst or full auto.

For  full  auto:  the  player  declares  the  number  of  rounds 
(bullets)  to  be  fired,  which  may  be  any  number  up  to  the 
capacity of the gun before rolling the dice. Due to the recoil 
of automatic weapons, it is very hard to place a high number 
of rounds in a single target. To simulate this, the number of 
bullets fired is divided into a series of volleys, with an attack 

roll made for each volley.

A  volley  is  a  number  of  bullets  up  to  or  equal  to  the 
firer’s  Submachine  Gun  (SMG)  or  Machine  Gun  (MG) 
skill  divided by 10 and rounded down: simply read the tens 
digit of the skill value. Regardless of skill, a full auto volley is  
never  fewer  than  3  bullets.  For  example:  a  character  with 
Firearms  (SMG)  47%  would  fire  four  bullets  in  a  volley. 
A character can fire full auto (multiple volleys) in a single 
round  until  their  ammunition  runs  out,  although  the 
chances of hitting reduce after the first volley has been fired.

For  burst  fire:  one  pull  of  the  trigger  fires  2  or  3  bullets, 
this being considered the best combination of accuracy and 
conservation  of  ammunition.  This  is  simply  treated  as  a 
volley of 2 or 3 shots (depending on the firearm; the user’s 
skill plays no role in determining the number of bullets).

When  firing  semi-automatic  (ie.  multiple  single  shots): 
apply a penalty die to each shot, making a skill roll for each 
bullet  fired,  just  as  when  firing  multiple  rounds  from  a 
handgun see Handguns, Multiple Shots (page 113).

Rolling to hit with automatic fire:

First attack roll: apply the usual rules for a firearms attack 
roll (set difficulty by range and then apply any modifiers).

Sometimes taking cover is more advantageous than fighting back.

114 

Call of CthulhuHarvey  is  investigating  the  disappearance  of  his  old  friend,  Nott