 worship  a  Great  Old 
One. Lone madmen, on the other hand, seem to prefer the 
Outer Gods. Beings serving the Great Old Ones frequently 
inhabit the remote fastness of the Earth. Investigators most 
often encounter their worshipers and alien servants.

The Great Old Ones themselves appear to be immensely 
powerful  alien  beings  with  supernatural-seeming  abilities, 
but not to be true gods in the sense that the Outer Gods are 
reported. Each Great Old One is independent of the rest and 
many seem to be temporarily imprisoned in some way. It is 
said that, “When the stars are right,” the Great Old Ones can 
plunge from world to world. When the stars are not right, 
they cannot live. “Cannot live” need not mean death, as the 
famous couplet from the Necronomicon suggests:

That is not dead which can eternal lie, 
And with strange aeons even death may die. 

Cthulhu,  the  most  famous  creation  of  Lovecraft,  is  a 
Great Old One. With the rest of his race, he sleeps in a vast 
tomb at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. Cthulhu seems 
to be the most important Great Old One on Earth. Others 
of  differing  forms  exist  and  they  are  recorded  as  being 
both less powerful and more free. Ithaqua the Windwalker 
roams  at  will  across  Earth’s  arctic  latitudes.  Hastur  the 
Unspeakable  dwells  near  Aldebaran,  and  Cthugha  near 
Fomalhaut.  Other  Great  Old  Ones  doubtless  infest  other 
worlds and it may be common for a world to be ruled by 
dominant Great Old Ones. All those known on Earth are 
invoked or worshiped by humans but, by the evidence of 
the  stories,  Cthulhu  is  worshiped  more  than  the  rest  put 
together.  Minor  Great  Old  Ones  such  as  Quachil  Uttaus 
usually have no worshipers, but wizards may know spells 

What Was Left Out
The  original  designer,  Sandy  Petersen,  took  the  deci-
sion  to  ignore  a  portion  of  the  Mythos  that  did  not 
appeal to him and which he felt was not in Lovecraft’s 
original  concept.  He  left  out  the  “war  in  heaven”  in 
which the Great Old Ones battled and were defeated 
by the Elder Gods, supposed deities of good opposed 
to the cosmic evil of the Great Old Ones. This idea of 
a cosmic war is never found in Lovecraft’s own works; 
more  alarmingly,  it  vitiates  some  of  the  stark  horror 
found in the original ideas. Carrying Elder Signs around 
like  crucifixes  and  holy  water  and  always  having  the 
white-hat Elder Gods in the background, ready to save 
one’s bacon if things get too bad, greatly weakens the 
original horror of the bleak uncaring universe, to which 
mankind  is  left  naked  and  defenseless.  He  also  left 
out the concept of the various Great Old Ones being 
somehow  connected  to  the  Greek  elements  of  Earth, 
Water,  Fire,  and  Air  (exemplified  by  Nyarlathotep, 
Cthulhu, Cthugha, and Hastur, respectively). This idea 
falls apart under close inspection (if Cthulhu is a water 
god, why is he currently dead due to being under the 
sea?), and weakens the premise of the Great Old Ones 
being monstrous alien beings. 

In  addition,  for  this  current  edition,  the  designers 
have omitted classifying Mythos races into the divisions 
of Servitor and Independent (greater and lesser varieties). 
Such classifications