 although  he 
kept on as an agent for “several other interested par-
ties, with deeper pockets,” whose identities he will not 
disclose and if pressed will simply brand as “foreign.”
T  Wick felt betrayed by Leiter, assuming he had come 
to an arrangement with a buyer other than himself.
T  Wick  will  acknowledge  that  there  are  “dangerous 
forces  in  the  world  and  beyond  it,  not  given  men 
to  know,”  and  fears,  from  what  he  has  heard  since 
Charles Leiter’s death, that such forces gather around 
the papers. If asked to elaborate he will merely point to 
the history of tragedy that surrounds the Hobbhouse 
family  and  recent  events,  adding  that  any  danger  is 
likely  to  emanate “from  the  things  old  Hobbhouse 
seized at the trial,” rather than anything else.

T  He  is  still  interested  in  "acquiring"  the  papers  and 
will offer a price of several thousand dollars for the 
acquisition of the originals, "No questions asked.”

Roleplaying hooks

T  Wick  likes  to  be  in  charge.  He  will  try  to  use  the 

investigators as his pawns.

T  He wants the papers; can the investigators help?
T  He is keen to know all about Leiter’s death and the 
whereabouts of the body (perhaps for a tasty treat).

Keeper’s Notes: Abner Wick is a man of many secrets, 
masks  and  lies,  and  depending  on  the  chosen  role  the 
Keeper  has  determined  for  him,  some  or  all  of  these  may 
be revealed to the investigators over the course of the game. 
Wick possesses knowledge of the Mythos and so could pro-
vide singular insight into the death of Charles Leiter and its 
true causes—although he will much prefer to talk of such 
matters as, "dark possibilities" rather than in factual terms.  
The  Lies  of  Abner  Wick:  Abner  Wick’s  first  mask  of 
deception—that  of  gentleman  antiquarian—is  easily  dis-
pelled through his connection to Charles Leiter, which may 
be  discovered  either  by  studying  Leiter’s  notes  or  through 
conversations with Lucy Stone. This will reveal Wick to be 
a long-time client and go-between for Leiter’s forgery and 
thefts,  although  as  a  customer  rather  than  co-conspirator, 
and one Leiter was keen to keep on his side. 

The second mask that may be uncovered is that of Wick’s 
degeneracy and just how deep his corruption lies. Further 
investigation into Wick’s criminal connections, which range 
from Arkham to Maine, Boston, and Providence, will reveal 
a reputed dope-fiend (and maybe worse), a dealer in stolen 

373 

chapter 15: scenariosgoods (specifically antiques), and known fence with a rep-
utation for being able to lay his hands on big money for the 
right items. He is also known for being a man fatal to cross.  
The  third  mask,  and  one  the  investigators  are  unlikely 
to see behind, is that of humanity. Abner Wick is a cannibal 
and murderer, whose contaminated blood carries the stain 
of the jackals of the earth. Once a changeling child, whose 
mother bore him in the lightless depths of the ghoul-bur-
rowed  passages  in  the  charnel  depths  beneath  the  city  of 
Boston  nearly  a  hundred  years  ago,  he  was  a  hybrid-bas-
tard, fostered upon a wealthy family whose own babe was 
devoured in darkness. His transformation from human to 
fully-fledged ghoul has been slow and long. His long-estab-
lished  taste  for  fresh  human  flesh,  particularly  that