 many chases.
Harvey  Walters  is  a  journalist,  working  for  Enigma 
Magazine.  Journalists  use  EDU  ×  4  to  calculate  their 
occupation  skill  points.  Harvey’s  EDU  84  (multiplied 

38 

Call of Cthulhuand  the  level  chosen  should  reflect  the  investigator’s  rank 
in  that  profession.  For  example,  "criminal"  could  be  used 
as a profession for a poor lone pickpocket (Credit Rating 9) 
or for a wealthy gang boss (Credit Rating 90). Any number 
of skill points can be invested in Credit Rating within the 
recommended limits for that profession. 

There are six living standards: penniless, poor, average, 
wealthy, rich, and super rich. Each one determines the life-
style,  type  of  accommodation,  travel,  and  expenses  that  a 
person can comfortably afford on a day-to-day basis.

Step 4: Create a Backstory 
Not one man who participated in that terrible raid could ever 
be induced to say a word concerning it, and every fragment of 
the vague data which survives comes from those outside the 
final fighting party. There is something frightful in the care 
with which these actual raiders destroyed each scrap which 
bore the least allusion to the matter.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Case Of Charles Dexter Ward

Most of the ideas and abilities that make an investigator inter-
esting and fun to play are a matter of choice—not necessarily 
dice roll results. Think about what personal history, friends, 
enemies, and achievements could have led your investigator 
to delve into the secrets of the Mythos.

There are ten categories listed on the back of the investigator 
sheet; try to write down at least one entry for the first six (Person-
al Description, Ideology/Beliefs, Significant People, Meaningful 
Locations,  Treasured  Possessions,  and  Traits).  It’s  not  essential 
to have an entry for each category, but the more you are able to 
define, the more your investigator comes to life. Further entries 
may be added or existing ones altered during play.

The categories of Injuries & Scars, Phobias & Manias, Ar-
cane Tomes, Spells & Artifacts, and Encounters with Strange 
Entities may be written in during play. Of course, some in-
vestigators might start the game with a significant injury or 
scar if implied by your investigator’s history—if so, write it in.
An  investigator’s  background  serves  three  functions  in 

the game:

First, as a set of pithy statements that serve as a guide to 
roleplaying, helping to define your investigator and remind 
you how he or she relates to the world.

An investigator is about to encounter the Cthulhu Mythos for the first time.

39 

chapter 3: CREATING INVESTIGATORSSample Occupations

The occupations below are just a sample of the possibilities 
(Chaosium’s  Investigator  Handbook  provides  details  for 
many more). Use these as a guide when creating occupa-
tions not listed here. Occupations important in Lovecraft’s 
stories are noted as [Lovecraftian], while those marked with 
[Modern] are only available for modern-day game settings.
If  creating  a  new  occupation,  confine  the  number 
of skills to eight, otherwise the notion of an occupation 
being  a  concentration  of  knowledge  and  ability  (skills) 
becomes pointless. 

Some occupations, like Hacker, exist only in specific 
settings such as the modern day. You should choose only 
those skills appropriate to the historical setting in which 
your  game  is  taking  place.  If  you’re  unsure  about  this, 
talk to your Keeper.

Skill definitions can be found in Chapter 4: Skills.

ANTIQUARIAN  [Lovecraftian]—Appraise,  Art/Craft 
(any),  History,  Library  Use,  Other  Language, 