 ac-
companied  by  several  such  servitors.  Representatives  may 
act as assassins, messengers, spies, and delivery boys, fright-
ening  off  investigators  and  bulking  out  confrontations.  In 
comparison, Outer Gods and Great Old Ones should be met 
with exceedingly infrequently. 

The list of servitor races includes: Byakhee, Dark Young 
of Shub-Niggurath, Deep Ones, Fire Vampires, Servants of 
Gla'aki, Star-Spawn of Cthulhu, Formless Spawn, Hunting 
Horrors, Nightgaunts, Rat-Things, Sand-Dwellers, Servitors 
of  the  Outer  Gods,  Shantaks,  Spawn  of  Ubbo-Sathla,  and 
Tcho-Tchos.

Independent Races
Other alien species are also important, and sometimes have 
been  able  to  hold  their  own  against  Great  Old  Ones.  The 
independent races vary in power, and some are extinct. They 
are intimately connected with our planet, as described in At 
the Mountains of Madness and The Shadow Out of Time. In 
these  stories  Lovecraft  gives  the  true  history  of  the  Earth. 
Some species, such as dholes or flying polyps, make no asso-
ciation with particular gods or else, as with elder things and 
the Great Race, take no special interest in magic. Whether 
one is greater or lesser seems to depend on the relative dan-
ger posed by the average individual.

At the dawn of the Cambrian age, beings known only as 
the elder things flew to the Earth. They inhabited much of 
the land, warred with other species, and finally were pushed 

back  to  Antarctica.  The  elder  things,  perhaps  mistakenly, 
bred  organisms  eventually  to  evolve  into  the  dinosaurs, 
mammals, and humanity. They also bred the horrible shog-
goths,  whose  ultimate  revolt  led  to  the  near-extinction  of 
the elder things.

Aeons  ago,  indigenous  cone-shaped  beings  had  their 
minds taken over by the Great Race of Yith, mental beings 
from  the  stars.  The  Great  Race  survived  in  their  adopted 
bodies until about 50 million years ago, when they were de-
feated by terrible flying polyps not native to this Earth, which 
the Great Race had imprisoned in vast caverns beneath the 
surface.  However,  the  Great  Race  had  already  transmitted 
their minds forward in time to escape their doom.

The star-spawn of Cthulhu came down upon the Earth 
and conquered a vast reach of land in the primordial Pacific 
Ocean, but were trapped when it sank beneath the surface. 
The  beings  referred  to  as  the  fungi  from Yuggoth  (or  mi-
go) established their first bases on the Earth in the Jurassic 
period, about a hundred million years ago. They gradually 
reduced their bases to the tops of certain mountains, where 
they maintain mining colonies and such.

At present, humans share the planet with deep ones and 
ghouls (which seem related to humanity in some fashion), 
and with a handful of mi-go. Other species occasionally visit 
Earth, or are sleeping, or are dormant. 

The list of independent Races includes: Chthonians, Co-
lours Out of Space, Dholes, Dimensional Shamblers, Elder 
Things,  Flying  Polyps,  Ghasts,  Ghouls,  Gnoph-Keh,  Great 
Race  of Yith,  New  Great  Race,  Gugs,  Hounds  of  Tindalos, 
Lloigor, Mi-go, Moon-Beasts, Serpent People, Insects from 
Shaggai, Shoggoths, Star Vampires, and Beings from Xicotl.

343 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsAmidst the  
Ancient Trees

he daughter