,  one  might  create  or  extract  complex  chemical 
compounds,  including  simple  explosives,  poisons,  gases, 
and  acids,  requiring  at  least  a  day  or  so  with  the  proper 
equipment  and  chemicals.  The  user  could  also  analyze  an 
unknown substance, given proper equipment and reagents. 

Cryptography  (01%):  The  study  of  secret  codes  and  lan-
guages  developed  by  one  or  more  persons  to  conceal  the 
contents of a conversation or message. A specialized branch 
of mathematics, this skill enables the identification, creation 
and/or deciphering of a code. Codes are usually written, but 
may take other forms, such as a message hidden within a mu-
sical composition, graphic art, or computer coding (in mod-
ern-day settings). Cracking a code can be painstaking work, 
often requiring lengthy research and number crunching. 

Engineering  (01%):  While  technically  not  a  science,  it  is 
grouped here for convenience. Science is about identifying 
certain  phenomena  (through  observing  and  recording), 
whereas engineering takes such findings and uses them to 
produce practical applications, such as machines, structures, 
and materials.

Forensics  (01%):  The  analysis  and  identification  of  evi-
dence. Normally associated with crime scene investigation 
(examination  of  fingerprints,  DNA,  hair,  and  body  fluids) 
and laboratory work in order to determine fact and provide 
expert witness and evidence for legal disputes. 

Geology (01%): Used to determine the approximate age of 
rock strata, recognize fossil types, distinguish minerals and 
crystals, locate promising sites for drilling or mining, eval-
uate soils, anticipate volcanism, seismic events, avalanches, 
and other such phenomena. 

Mathematics (10%):  The  study  of  numbers  and  logic,  in-
cluding mathematical theories and applied and theoretical 
solution design and development. The skill might allow the 
identification  of  non-Euclidian  geometries,  solve  puzzling 
formulae, and decrypt complex patterns or codes (see Cryp-
tography for specialized study of codes).

Meteorology (01%): The scientific study of the  atmosphere, 
including  weather  systems  and  patterns,  and  atmospheric 
phenomena. Use this skill to determine long-range weather 
patterns and to forecast effects like rain, snow, and fog.

Pharmacy  (01%):  The  study  of  chemical  compounds 
and  their  effect  on  living  organisms.  Traditionally  this  has 
involved the formulation, creation, and dispensing of medi-
cations (whether a witch-doctor using combination of herbs 
or  a  modern  pharmacist  operating  in  a  laboratory).  The 
application of this skill ensures the safe and effective use of  
pharmaceutical  drugs,  including  synthesizing  ingredients, 
identification of toxins, and knowledge of possible side effects.

75 

chapter 4: skillsPhysics  (01%):  Grants  theoretical  understanding  of  pres-
sure,  materials,  motion,  magnetism,  electricity,  optics, 
radioactivity,  and  related  phenomena,  and  some  ability  to 
construct experimental devices to test ideas. The degree of 
knowledge depends on the era of use. Practical devices, such 
as automobiles, are not the province of physicists, however 
experimental devices may be, perhaps in conjunction with 
Electronics or Mechanical Repair.

Zoology  (01%):  The  study  of    biology  that  relates  spe-
cifically  to  the  animal  kingdom,  including  the  structure, 
evolution,  classification, behavioral habits, and distribution 
of  animals, both living and extinct. Use this skill to iden-
tify animal species from interaction with the environment 
(tracks, droppings, marks, etc.), likely behaviors, and