 points for 
seeing a particular sort of monster as the maximum possible 
Sanity point loss for that monster, he or she should not lose 
more Sanity points for a reasonable interval. For instance, 
no  investigator  could  lose  more  than  6  Sanity  points  for 
encountering deep ones (0/1D6 SAN), even if a hundred of 
them were seen at once. 

But  be  warned!  Investigators  never  truly  get  used  to 
seeing  alien  obscenities.  After  a  time,  perhaps  once  the 
investigator’s  life  has  returned  to  some  form  of  normalcy, 
the sense of horror can rise up anew. A player should keep 
track of the Sanity points lost to any given Mythos entity. 
With  every  investigator  development  phase  (see  page  94), 
the player should reduce all those numbers by 1—time is a 
great healer.

Harvey has lost a total of 6 Sanity points as a result of 
encounters with deep ones. Harvey cannot lose more 
Sanity  points  through  seeing  deep  ones  at  present. 
However, when Harvey’s player makes her next set of 
experience rolls, she has to reduce that limit by 1 to 
5. Now if Harvey meets a deep one and fails his SAN 
roll, he will lose 1 point of SAN.

Optional Rules

Insane Insight
When  an  investigator  goes  insane  (either  temporarily  or 
indefinitely),  he  or  she  has  a  momentary  insane  insight. 
This moment of clarity provides a clue or action that might 
benefit  the  investigator(s)  immediately  or  at  some  later 
stage. The Keeper should determine an appropriate insight 
relevant to the plot of the scenario.

Mythos Hardened
When  an  investigator’s  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  rises  above 
the value of his or her Sanity score a turning point has been 
reached.  That  investigator’s  understanding  of  the  universe 
undergoes  a  paradigm  shift  that  results  in  a  permanent 
change to their personality and comprehension of their place 
in the cosmos. How this is portrayed is left open to the player. 
The player may decide that his or her investigator’s mind is 
inured to the horror, no longer cares, or has a more profound 
understanding  that  is  no  longer  shaken  by  the  truth.  From 
that point onward, all Sanity point loss is halved. Once this 
change  has  taken  place  it  is  permanent  and  will  not  revert 
if  the  investigator’s  Sanity  should  rise  above  their  Cthulhu 
Mythos knowledge.

Multiple Sanity rolls
The rules state that the Sanity point loss for a monster remains 
the  same  whether  one  monster  or  a  multiple  monsters  are 
encountered.  One  option  that  ramps  up  Sanity  point  loss  is 
to ask the player to roll Sanity loss once for each monster and 
then use the highest number rolled. This approach works well 
when  multiple  monsters  of  different  types  are  encountered 
simultaneously.

Harvey encounters 3 deep ones and Father Dagon all 
at once, and is required make one SAN roll. Harvey’s 
player  fails  the  SAN  roll  and  must  roll  for  Sanity 
point loss once for each monster. She rolls 1D6 once 
for each deep one, results in 2, 4 and 5. She also rolls 
1D10 for Dagon, resulting in 4. Harvey loses Sanity 
points equal to the highest value—5 points.

169 

chapter 8: sanityhe  magic  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  stems  from 
the unfathomable alien intelligences that reside 
outside of humanity’s ability to comprehend. 
What may be the pinnacle of science