 of  books 
bequeathed to the people of England that led to the founding 
of the British Museum in 1753.

The copy found in the Bibliothèque Nationale is in poor 
condition,  bound  in  the  cheap,  crumbling  pasteboards 
common  to  the  era.  The  text  is  in  similarly  bad  condition, 
with many torn pages and several pages missing altogether. 
Other pages are indecipherable, badly stained by what some 
identify as blood. The acquisition of the book is shrouded in 
mystery, the volume deposited at the front desk in 1811 by a 
furtive man of foreign caste. The mysterious donor was found 
a day later in a rat-infested apartment, a victim of poison.

The University of Buenos Aires’ copy is said to have come 
to  South  America  in  the  late  17th  century.  Although  the 
text is in only fair condition, it is unique for its odd marginal 
notes, written in unknown glyphs.

The Widener Library at Harvard contains a Necronomicon 
of poor condition. Its binding is original, but badly cracked 
and split. The text is complete but many pages have separated 
and others are crumbling. Restoration efforts are underway. 
The  book  was  part  of  the  library  of  Harry  Elkins  Widener, 
American millionaire, and it is said that he obtained the vol-
ume shortly before he boarded the Titanic in 1912. 

The  copy  at  Miskatonic  University  was  obtained  late  in 
the last century by a young Dr. Armitage, then only recently 
hired by the school. Purchased from the private collection of 
Providence  businessman  Whipple  Phillips,  the  Miskatonic’s 
edition  of  the  Necronomicon  was  rebound,  probably  in  the 
early  18th  century,  in  sumac-tanned  goatskin.  A  false  title, 
Qanoon-e-Islam, is embossed in gold on the front cover. The 
text is complete and in fair to good condition.

232 

Call of CthulhuPeople of the Monolith
English, by Justin Geoffrey, 1926
A volume of poems, 4" × 6.75", bound in dark red buckram at 
Erebus Press, Monmouth, Illinois, in an edition of 1200 cop-
ies. The title poem is acknowledged as Geoffrey’s masterwork. 

Sanity Loss: 1D3
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+2 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 9
Study: 1 week 
Suggested Spells: none

Pnakotic Manuscripts
English, author and translator unknown, 15th century
Five bound manuscript versions (partial copies of a greater 
work, now lost) of this book are catalogued in Europe and 
America.  The  apparent  precursor  volume,  the  Pnakotica, 
was written in classical Greek, and that book may trace its 
origins to the pre-human crinoids who seeded life on Earth. 

Sanity Loss: 1D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+7 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 30
Study: 45 weeks
Suggested Spells: Contact Winged Thing (Elder Thing).

Ponape Scripture
English, by Captain Abner Ezekiel Hoag, 1734. 
Published posthumously c. 1795, in Boston, as a sextodeci-
mo, 4" × 6.75", but inferior in accuracy and completeness to 
Hoag’s manuscript, copies of which purportedly still exist. 
Details  a  South  Sea  islander  cult  of  humans  who  worship 
and breed with the deep ones.

Sanity Loss: 1D6 
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+4 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 15
Study: 10 weeks
Suggested Spells: the printed version has no spells. The 
manuscript  original