 during the dark 
of  the  moon.  A  dark  young  will  stalk  out  of  the  shadows 
after the summoning.

Alternative names: Envoke the Darke of the Forest, Knife 

Ritual of the Bleeding Bark.

Summon  Dimensional  Shambler:  a  single  dimensional 
shambler gradually assembles itself out of thin air. The spell 
requires a dagger made from any pure metal such as copper 
or iron. Alloys such as brass will not work. If the dagger is 
enchanted, the chance for success also rises by 2 percentiles 
per point of POW in the dagger. This spell may be cast day 
or night. One authority has written that shamblers are more 
easily confused in bright sunlight.

Alternative  names:  Recitation  to  Bring  the  Wanderer, 

The Song of Copper. 

If  a  success,  one  being  appears  per  spell,  2D10  game 
minutes after the chant concludes. The thing appearing may 
also require a Sanity loss to see it.

As  the  Keeper  wishes,  the  thing  arrives  bound  or  the 
Keeper may ask that the caster make an opposed POW roll 
versus  the  summoned  being.  With  a  success,  the  thing  is 

Summon Fire Vampire: causes one fire vampire to swoop 
down from the sky like a skittering star. A bonfire or other 
source  of  flame  is  required.  The  spell  may  be  cast  only  at 
night when the star Fomalhaut is above the horizon (Sep-
tember through November are the best times in moderately 
northern latitudes).

263 

chapter 12: grimoireAlternative  names:  Conjure  the  Glittering  Ones,  The 

Autumnal Call of Living Fire. 

Summon Hunting Horror: A single horror appears head-
first, as though entering through a hole in the air. This spell 
may  be  cast  only  at  night  in  the  open  air.  If  no  alternate 
sacrifice  has  been  prepared  for  the  binding  (see  Separate 
Binding below), it takes the caster and vanishes

Alternative names: Petition the Feasting Teeth, Utteranc-

es That Bring Forth the Twisting Devils.

Summon Nightgaunt: A nearly silent swoosh of air comes, 
and then the single ghastly form of the blank-faced flying 
horror appears. To summon, a stone emblazoned with the 
cryptic Elder Sign must be present, but the stone itself need 
not be star-shaped. The spell can be cast only at night when 
there is no moon.

Alternative names: The Whispered Words of the Faceless 

Men, Conjure the Winged Shadow.

Summon  Servitor  Of  The  Outer  Gods:  A  single  servitor 
arrives amid haunting echoes of insane piping. The magic 
point  cost  is  triple  that  of  the  standard  summoning  spell; 
for each three magic points sacrificed, increase the chance 
for a successful cast by 10 percentiles; a result of 96-100 is 
always a failure. Each cast of this spell also costs 3D4 Sanity 
points. A  flute  is  also  needed  to  cast  this  spell;  if  the  flute 
is enchanted, it increases the chance for the spell’s success 
by 2 percentiles per point of POW within the flute. Cultists 
cast  this  spell  anywhere  and  at  any  time  that  is  especially 
unhallowed—typical  nights  would  be  Midsummer’s  Eve, 
Samhain, and Walpurgis Night.

Alternative  names:  The  Ritual  Symphony  of  the  Inde-

scribable Ones, Recitation of the Maddening Piping. 

Summon Star Vampire: curious rustling sounds are heard 
once  this  invisible  thing  lurks  near.  The  caster  also  needs