should feel free to add to these or judiciously place the infor-
mation they offer elsewhere in the path of the investigators 
as required.

Locations
Leiter’s Cottage
A small, nicely appointed cottage near the campus, one of 
a  number  of  similar  homes  owned  by  the  University  and 
rented out to faculty members. 

The back door lock has recently been replaced and new 
bolts  added  to  the  doors  and  windows.  The  place  is  in  a 
state of semi-organized chaos; Leiter clearly having been in 
the  process  of  getting  ready  to  leave. Various  (incriminat-
ing)  papers  have  been  hastily  burnt  in  the  fireplace  in  the 
lounge—a possible place for clues, such as the burnt rem-
nants of a letter from Arkham Sanitarium, a diary date with 
Lucy Stone, or proposal of interest from Abner Wick.

376 

Call of CthulhuLeiter’s  desk  is  cluttered  with  all 
manner  of  papers  (mostly  of 
little 
importance),  however  details  of  his 
financial  dealings  can  be  uncovered 
(as  Roach  has  already  done).  A  pocket 
notebook  shows  Leiter’s  accounts,  with 
details  of  repeated  influxes  of  cash  in 
the  thousands  of  dollars  and  its  rapid 
removal,  the  sums  involved  being  far 
beyond  a  university  professor’s  means. 
Travel tickets and receipts for numerous 
trips to Atlantic City may also be in evi-
dence, as is a receipt for the replacement 
of  the  cottage’s  locks  and  bolts  (dated 
September 12th).

An unopened letter lies on the door-
mat  from  the  local  sanatorium  (which 
Roach mistook for a circular). This letter 
is  a  notice  of  admission  and  request  to 
visit regarding the case of one C. Hunter, 
of  whom  Professor  Leiter  has  assumed 
temporary guardianship.

Partial forgeries, along with one thou-
sand dollars in cash, are well hidden in a 
secret hiding place known only to Leiter 
and  Lucy  Stone,  requiring  either  Lucy’s 
help or a Spot Hidden roll to locate.

Leiter’s Office at the 
University
Leiter’s office on campus is a small affair, 
with  a  single  desk,  some  filing  cabinets 
and a fireplace. On the wall is a shattered 
mirror,  which  if  carefully  studied  will 
be  found  to  be  partially  melted.  It  was 
this  mirror  that  Leiter  looked  into  on 
the  night  of  his  death,  staring  into  the 
abysmal horror that burnt out his soul. 
Study  of  the  mirror  may  lead  to  some 
unfortunate event; perhaps a part of the 
monster  still  lies  within  the  glass  (see 
Signs of Passage).

The office is next to a smaller room where Emilia Court 

undertakes her work as Leiter’s assistant and secretary.

An  inspection  of  the  office  reveals  little  (Leiter  spent  at 
least half of his time working at home—a fact easily verified 
by Emilia Court). A number of letters and documents appear 
to have been burnt in the fireplace. If questioned about this, 
Court will say that this must have happened on the night of 
Leiter’s  death.  Searching  through  the  filing  cabinets  reveals 
that a number of (incriminating) files are missing, presum-
ably burnt in the fireplace (or perhaps taken by Roach).

The Keeper may wish to plant other clues here, such as 
a matchbook for Hibb’s Roadhouse (perhaps written on by 
Lucy  Stone),  a  piece