 and it 
is only a matter of time until the investigator is successful, 
don’t roll dice. If multiple missiles are available and there is 
a distinct risk connected with failure then the Keeper might 
ask for a Pushed roll.

Pushing examples: taking more time to assess the distance 
or waiting some time for more favorable conditions; putting 
every ounce of strength into the throw and throwing your-
self as you launch the item; throwing a lot of items in quick 
succession hoping one will hit the target; taking a massive 
run-up  and  risking  your  momentum  taking  you  over  the 
ravine.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  you  send 
the object flying to your companion as you stumble and fall, 
hitting  your  head  against  the  jagged  rocks;  you  throw  too 
hard and the object flies over the high church wall into the 
graveyard;  the  dynamite  stick  slips  from  your  hand—you 
look for it in vain but fail to see it in your hood, and only 
then do you smell the burning fuse.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she will 

refuse to let go of the item to be thrown.

Track (10%)
With Track, an investigator can follow a person, vehicle, or 
animal over earth and through plants/leaves. Factors such as 
time passed since the tracks were made, rain, and the type of 
ground covered may affect the difficulty level.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
If  tracking  someone  who  is  trying  to  conceal  their  tracks, 
the opponent’s Stealth skill should be used to set the diffi-
culty level; modifiers might also be applied for the prevailing 
weather and terrain.

i  Regular difficulty: tracking an animal or human in 
the forest under normal (temperate) conditions.
i  Hard difficulty: following a trail that is several (or 

more) days old.

Pushing examples:  backtracking  and  taking  more  time  to 
study  the  area;  walking  in  increasing  spirals  to  locate  the 
tracks (taking longer, possibly making more noise and mak-
ing oneself more visible). 

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the tracks 
you are following lead you directly into the path of a hun-
gry bear/lion/cannibal; you find yourself going round and 
round in circles, and night is falling as you realize you are 
now totally lost; you follow the tracks, only to be ambushed 
or caught in a trap laid by the thing you are following.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
will compulsively follow any tracks (convinced they are the 
right ones) until they are physically restrained or convinced 
otherwise. 

Optional Rules

Specializations: Transferable Skill 
Benefit
Specializations are dealt with in one of two ways: 

G  Art and Craft, and Science skills are addressed under 

Skill Specializations on page 54.

G  In  the  case  of  Fighting,  Firearms,  Languages  (by 
grouping),  and  Survival,  the  specializations  contain 
much  that  is  common  and  transferable  from  one 
specialization  to  another.  For  example,  in  learning 
to  use  a  firearm,  there  are  more  similarities  than 
differences between the subdivisions of firearms. In 
the  case  of  fighting,  there  are  a  lot  of  transferable 
skills that any fighter will use (reaction times, judging 
range,  evasions,  feints,  timing,  spotting  openings, 
knowing where to hit, etc.). Contrast those compar-
isons with Astronomy and Pharmacy (in the case of 
Science). Thus, within Fighting, Firearms, Languages 
(by grouping), and Survival, the improvement of one 
specialization  has  a  transferable  benefit  to  all  other 
closely related specialisms. 

G  When