  Harvey  failed  his  CON  roll,  the 
situation  would  be  quite  different.  Harvey’s  MOV 
would  fall  to  5  and  the  Keeper  would  establish  the 
chase partway down the farm track with the farmer 
two locations behind Harvey.

Locations
"Location" is a term used to denote a position in the chase. 
The  locations  do  not  need  to  be  equally  spaced;  a  locked 
door or a flight of stairs might separate two locations, while 
another might be a point on a stretch of open road. Loca-
tions  divide  the  chase  into  narrative  chunks,  rather  than 
being a set physical distance. For example, a hotel might be 
divided  into  multiple  locations:  revolving  door,  crowded 
foyer, stairs, lifts, corridors, restaurant, kitchens, bedrooms, 
offices, and so on.

If  a  chase  takes  place  at  the  same  time  as  a  separate 
combat, the Keeper should ensure that the distance between 
locations is not excessive, otherwise you may end up with 
one group of characters running the length of a city block in 
the time it takes another investigator to smash a chair over 
a cultist’s head.

A chase is made up of a string of locations. The Keeper 
should  keep  careful  track  of  which  character  is  at  which 
location.  Depending  on  their  speed,  characters  may  move 
1 or more locations each round. Hazards and barriers (see 
following) are positioned between locations and may slow a 
character’s progress. 

Harvey flees from the farmer.

Keeping Track of the Chase
When  running  a  chase  scene  you  may  find  the  following 
method useful for tracking the various characters.

Take a blank sheet of paper or whiteboard. Draw a line 
of dots half an inch apart. Each dot represents one location. 
Label  the  first  dot  with  a  letter  representing  the  pursuer. 
Then  write  a  letter  for  the  fleeing  character  two  dots  on 
from the pursuer, depending on the opening range (see Cut 
to  the  Chase).  As  characters  move,  simply  cross  out  their 
marker and draw it on its new position. 

An  angry  farmer  is  pursuing  Harvey  down  a  track. 
Following  speed  rolls,  Harvey’s  MOV  is  now  5;  the 
farmer’s  MOV  is  6.  The  Keeper  chooses  to  start  the 
action with the farmer 2 locations behind and records 
the positions thus:

Start:

Farmer

Harvey

The Chase Round
Just as with combat, a chase takes place in rounds and the 
characters act in DEX order. A combat round and a chase 
round are interchangeable.

Dexterity and the Order of Movement
The  question  of  who  gets  the  first  opportunity  to  act  can 
be  an  important  issue  in  a  chase.  Determine  the  order  of 

133 

chapter 7: chasesUsing  
Miniatures 
You may wish to use          
miniatures and model cars to 
track a chase. Just decide 
which miniature represents 
which character and then use 
markers or dots on a piece 
of paper to denote the range 
increments.

movement by ranking the characters’ DEX from highest to 
lowest.  In  the  case  of  a  draw,  use  an  opposed  DEX  roll  to 
decide who goes first.

Movement Actions
Each  character  gets  a  number  of  movement  actions  per 
round.  Movement  actions  are  used  to  move  from  one  lo-
cation  to  the  next.  Faster  characters  get  more  movement 
actions each round than slower characters.

Every  character  and  vehicle  gets  one 