 Mythos.

Mythos Rating: A measure of the depth 
of Cthulhu Mythos knowledge contained 
within each tome (see page 175).

NPC:  Non-Player  Character,  played  by 
the Keeper.

Obscure Clue: The Keeper may decide 
to withhold a clue if the players fail their 
Perception skill rolls (see page 203).

Obvious Clue: The Keeper may decide 
that  a  clue  is  essential  and  will  simply 
deliver it to a player (see page 202).

Occupation:  What  an 
does for a living.

investigator 

Opposed  Roll:  Both  sides  in  the  con-
test roll and compare levels of success; 
the  higher  level  of  success  wins  the 
contest (see page 90). 

Optional Rule: Such rules are available 
as  enhancements  or  alternatives  to  the 
standard  rules  and  may  be  used  at  the 
Keeper’s discretion. 

388 

Outnumbered: Once a character has ei-
ther fought back or dodged in the present 
combat round, all subsequent attacks on 
them are made with one bonus die. Char-
acters and monsters that have more than 
one attack per round may also dodge or 
fight  back  that  number  of  times  before 
the bonus die is applied (see page 108).

Penalty: May be applied by the Keeper to 
a roll. Roll an additional "tens" percentile 
die alongside the usual pair of percentile 
dice when making a skill or characteristic 
roll. You are now rolling 3 separate dice; 
one "units" die and two "tens" dice. Use 
the tens die that yields the worst (higher) 
result (see page 91).

Percentage,  Percentage  Dice:  Most 
die rolls in the game are 1D100 (percent-
age)  rolls.  Skills  and  characteristics  are 
expressed as percentages.

Perception,  Perception  Roll:  Encom-
passes  Spot  Hidden,  Psychology  and 
Listen skills. May also include Track.

Personal  Interest:  When  creating  an 
investigator,  the  player  can  spend  INT 
x 2 skill points among any desired skills 
(see page 36).

Point-Blank:  Firearms  attacks  made 
within  a  fifth  of  the  shooter’s  DEX  in 
feet gain a bonus die (see page 113).

POW:  Power,  a  Characteristic.  See 
Characteristic.

Profession: see Occupation.

Pushing, Push: Provides a player with 
the option of a second attempt at a skill 
roll if the player can justify the second 
attempt.  A  pushed  roll  always  carries 
a  more  dire  consequence  if  the  roll  is 
failed. Combat, Chase, Sanity, and Luck 
rolls  cannot  be  pushed  (see  page  84). 
See Foreshadowing. 

Reality Check: The player makes a Sanity 
roll to test for delusions (see page 162).

Regular  Damage:  The  result  of  any 
single attack that deals damage less than 
half the character’s maximum hit points in 
a single blow. A character cannot die as a 
result of regular damage (see page 119).

Call of CthulhuRegular Success: A Regular success is 
a result equal to or below the full skill or 
characteristic  value  (see  page  82).  See 
Difficulty Level.

points.  A  success  may  cost  nominal 
Sanity  points  or  none  at  all.  A  failure 
always  costs  more  and  leads  toward 
insanity (see page 154).

Round: See Combat / Chase Round.

Sanity:  Every  investigator  begins  the 
game  as  sane,  but  through  the  loss  of 
Sanity points may become temporarily, 
indefinitely or permanently insane. See 
Insanity.

Sanity (SAN) Loss: The amount (usu-
