 the desert will lead to death, so hit points will 
be  used  to  track  failure.  The  players  will  be  asked 
to make a CON roll for each day of game time that 
passes—if a player fails the roll, their investigator will 
take 1D3 damage. Normally this would heal, but you 
decide that no healing is permitted due to the severe 
conditions.  An  investigator’s  hit  points  might  fall  to 
zero over the course of a few days, at which time he 
or  she  would  be  unconscious  and  facing  imminent 
death. The “new” rule fits with the intention and you 
institute this as a custom rule for use in that scenario.

Characteristic Rolls 
The standard rules present a method of generating charac-
teristics and creating an investigator. A variety of alternative 
approaches  are  presented  in  Chapter  3:  Creating  Investi-
gators.  Players  expect  consistency.  If  you  allow  one  player 
to  re-roll  or  juggle  characteristics,  you  should  be  up  front 
about it and apply the same approach for all players.

Action Scenes
Scenes  involving  multiple  investigators,  non-player  char-
acters  and/or  monsters  can  become  confusing,  especially 
when  trying  to  figure  out  who  is  doing  what  and  when. 

205 

chapter 10: playing the gameTo maintain control, you should quickly establish a list of 
investigators and non-player characters in DEX order. Start 
with  the  highest  DEX  (at  the  top  of  the  list)  and  resolve 
that character’s action, then work down the list in turn. The 
round is over when everyone has had their turn; go back to 
the top of the list and start over until the situation or scene 
is resolved. 

Some actions take longer to perform than others. Some-
times  the  rules  define  how  long  it  may  take  to  perform  a 
particular  action,  such  as  with  combat  attacks  and  spells, 
but for other actions you will have to make a judgment. 

Ricardo Moore attempts to pick a lock while his com-
panions protect his back from marauding cultists. The 
Keeper rules that it will take 3 combat rounds to pick 
the lock—more if the roll is pushed.

“But That’s How it Works in Reality”
When using your judgment over what might happen in the 
game, try to balance a sense of reality with what you think 
will  create  a  dramatic  situation—if  it’s  clear  that  being  a 
slave  to  verisimilitude  is  going  to  produce  a  dull  outcome 
then try being more creative. This is not to imply that you 
should strive to be unrealistic; however, if you find yourself 
justifying  a  universally  undesirable  event  with  the  phrase, 
“But that’s how it works in reality,” you should ask yourself 
if you couldn’t do something more dramatically creative. A 
shotgun  blast,  for  example,  may  not  send  a  person  flying 
back through the air in reality, but if you like the idea of it 
doing so then where’s the harm?

Movement
All  distances  are  approximate  and  based  on  narrative 
description,  so  accurate  measurement  will  rarely  be  an 
issue. Should you wish to gauge distances then, as a rough 
guide,  a  character  can  cautiously  travel  one  meter  or  yard 
per movement point (MOV) in one combat round; thus an 
average human can travel 8 meters in one combat round. If 
sprinting, a character might cover five times that distance, 
but would soon tire.

Hit Points and Physical Injury for 
Non-Player Characters
You  should  use  the  standard  damage  rules  for  non-player 
characters. However, non