’ll create wonderful 
new stories that would amaze the scenario’s author!

A published scenario describes a room as follows:

Main bedroom: A comfortable bedroom with a 
large window overlooking the rear garden. Clothes 
lie  scattered  across  the  floor  and  the  room  would 
benefit from a good clean. A wooden bedside cab-
inet  contains  a  copy  of  the  Cultes  des  Goules  in  a 
locked drawer. 

Your notes might reduce this to:
Main  bedroom,  grubby,  hidden  Cultes  des 

Goules.

And Finally...
If  there’s  one  thing  you  need  above  all  others  to  make  this 
game  fun,  it  is  a  positive  enthusiasm  to  make  stuff  up  and 
create conflict and drama. That spark of life trumps all the 
rules  and  advice  that  anyone  can  give  you  on  how  to  run 
a  game.  On  its  own,  enthusiasm  will  not  make  you  a  great 
Keeper, but without it you will never be one. If anything in 
this  book  excited  you,  then  focus  on  that.  Get  fired  up,  get 
excited and share that with your players so that they feel it too.

Now go and have fun!

221 

chapter 10: playing the game222 

Call of Cthulhuythos  tomes  are  the  repositories  of  arcane 
wisdom, terrible secrets, and powerful magic. 
They  provide  the  seeker  of  enlightenment 
with  stark  truths  about  reality,  existence,  and 
presence  of  those  from  outside.  For  the  un-
wary, such books delineate a path to nightmare, horror, and 
insanity.

This  chapter  summarizes  the  books  of  the  Cthulhu 
Mythos most often mentioned in the fiction of the Lovecraft 
Circle of writers. 

Describing Mythos Tomes
Some Mythos volumes are recent enough in origin to have 
been printed with movable type. Those editions were usu-
ally published privately in short press runs and only sold to 
rich  collectors  or  acquaintances.  Upon  publication,  copies 
often were sought out and destroyed by the authorities due 
to their scandalous nature. Better these texts be burned and 
suppressed. Such was the fate of the original publication of 
The King in Yellow. 

Where surviving copies exist, these have often have been 
ill-treated  by  the  crazed  or  malicious,  or  else  rebound  to 
disguise  their  blasphemous  contents.  Bound  manuscripts 
were  never  regularized  by  typesetting  and  printing,  and 
their wavering, blotted handwriting may be wholly incom-
prehensible for pages at a time, a situation remedied only by 
great dedication and scholarship.

Even though each book’s summary is uniform in these 
rules, assume that each copy of a Mythos book can be dif-
ferent  from  its  fellows.  Though  the  logic  of  that  potential 
diminishes  for  recent  books,  such  as  Azathoth  and  Others, 
even  then  bindings  may  be  broken,  pages  torn  out,  and 
signatures  missing  or  wrongly  collated.  Contents  may  be 
ink-stained or acid-scarred, with pages half-burnt and the 
words made illegible or utterly defaced by madmen (or by 
sane men who sought to destroy the dangerous information 
therein). Unique information may be written as marginalia 
or jotted down on notepaper and inserted here or there. 

Some  tomes  begin  to  possess  their  own “character”  as 
they  grow  in  age.  Passed  down  through  the  generations, 
between  family  members,  booksellers, 