  Aid  must  be  delivered  within  one 
hour,  in  which  case  it  grants  1  hit  point  recovery.  It  may 
be  attempted  once,  with  subsequent  attempts  constituting 
a Pushed roll. Two people can work together to administer 
First Aid, with a success granted if either one of them rolls 
a  success.  An  exception  is  allowed  when  treating  a  dying 
character (see Dying, below), wherein the best that can be 
achieved with First Aid is to temporarily stabilize the patient.

Medicine
Treatment  of  injuries  using  the  Medicine  skill  takes  a 
minimum of one hour and can be delivered any time after 
damage is taken. If this is not performed on the same day, 
the  difficulty  level  is  increased  (requiring  a  Hard  success). 
A  person  treated  successfully  with  Medicine  recovers  1D3 
hit points (in addition to any First Aid they have received), 
except in the case of a dying character (see Dying, below), 
who must initially receive successful First Aid, after which 
they must be stabilized using Medicine (see Major Wound 
Recovery, page 121).

Dying
A  character  is  dying  when  their  hit  points  are  reduced  to 
zero and they have also sustained a Major Wound. Record 
the Current Hit Points as "0" and check the “Dying” box.

The character immediately falls unconscious. The player 
must  make  a  CON  roll  at  the  end  of  the  next  round  and 
every round thereafter; if one of these CON rolls fails, the 
character dies immediately. Only the First Aid skill can be 

120 

Call of Cthulhuused to stabilize a dying character. Medicine cannot be used 
to stabilize a dying character (see Chapter 4: Skills).

The use of First Aid to stabilize a dying character grants 
1  temporary  hit  point,  and  it  must  be  followed  up  with  a 
successful  Medicine  skill  roll.  A  dying  character  that  has 
been  stabilized  with  First  Aid  (on  1  temporary  hit  point) 
should make a CON roll at the end of each hour; a failure 
indicates the patient's condition has deteriorated: they lose 
the temporary hit point and revert to the start of the Dying 
process, in need of First Aid and requiring a CON roll at the 
end of each round. 

The Medicine skill should be used to treat a dying char-
acter after he or she has been stabilized with First Aid. After 
a successful Medicine roll, uncheck the “dying” box on the 
investigator sheet and increase hit points by 1D3. A recovery 
roll  (see  Major Wound  Recovery)  should  be  made  at  the 
end of each further week of care/convalescence.

Continuing the previous example: Harvey suffers 
a further 5 damage. His current hit points fall to zero 
and, since he has taken a Major Wound (8 points of 
damage in a single attack), he is now dying; his play-
er checks the “dying” box and marks hit points as “0”. 
The following round a companion attempts First Aid 
and fails. Harvey’s CON roll is successful and he sur-
vives another round. The companion attempts First 
Aid again, this time he is successful. Harvey gains 1 
hit point and is stabilized (only requiring a CON roll 
per  hour)  and  is  taken  quickly  to  a  hospital  where 
he receives professional medical assistance. The dying 
tick is removed and Harvey gains 2 hit points (1D3 
from Medicine skill roll). After a week of rest Harvey 
makes a recovery roll (see below).

Regular Damage Recovery
Recovering from regular damage is relatively fast. If the char-
acter has not sustained a major wound (the major wound box 
is unchecked) the character recovers 1