. 
Robert Bloch and James Wade added a few stories to the 
canon;  however,  it  was  August  Derleth  who  contributed 
the  most,  producing  a  number  of  original  tales  as  well 
as  posthumous  collaborations  based  on  Lovecraft’s  story 
notes. Derleth also established Arkham House with Don-
ald Wandrei, a publishing business created to ensure that 
Lovecraft’s stories would not be forgotten. 

It  was  not  until  1964  that  the  appearance  of  a  young 
British  writer  named  Ramsey  Campbell  heralded  a  re-
newed  interest  in  the  Cthulhu  Mythos.  Encouraged  by 
August Derleth, Campbell’s first published collection, The 
Inhabitant  of  the  Lake  and  Other  Less  Welcome  Tenants 

Terminology
Occasionally referring to his Cthulhu and Yog-Sothoth 
cycles,  to  the  best  of  anyone’s  knowledge  Lovecraft 
never used the term Cthulhu Mythos. Although nearly 
all  his  tales  can  be  linked  by  common  references  to 
people, places, and things, for the most part they lack 
a true central structure or anything resembling a pre-
conceived history and mythology.

The term Cthulhu Mythos is generally attributed to 
August Derleth. Fans and scholars have since debated 
the definition of this term, argued the Cthulhu Mythos 
content of various of Lovecraft’s tales, constructed ex-
perimental pantheons of gods and deities, postulated 
histories,  and  made  vain  attempts  to  explain  all  the 
facets of the literary Mythos.

In  the  meantime  dozens,  perhaps  hundreds,  of 
writers  both  professional  and  amateur  have  continued 
to  write  Mythos-inspired  stories  expanding  upon 
Lovecraft’s  original  concepts  while  simultaneously 
developing their own, sometimes inconsistent with HPL 
and rarely consistent with each other. For the purposes 
of Call of Cthulhu, Chaosium has incorporated most of 
Lovecraft’s creations, as well as those of other authors, 
in a loosely cast Mythos that allows Keepers to add or 
delete particular creatures and conceptions as they will.

(1964), was a series of Lovecraft-inspired pastiches set in 
England’s Severn Valley. These stories described a number 
of different beings, races, and histories similar to, but dis-
tinct from Lovecraft’s. His most famous Mythos creations 
include Y’golonac, Gla'aki, the insects from Shagghai, and 
a  host  of  other  creatures  and  god-like  beings.  1971  saw 
the emergence of Brian Lumley, another Englishman who 
brought  to  the  Mythos  the  underground  chthonians,  the 
mysterious  G’harne  Fragments,  and  the  modern-day  sor-
cerer Titus Crow.

Numerous other authors directly influenced by Love-
craft include Gary Myers, Basil Copper, T.E.D. Klein, David 
Drake, and Thomas Ligotti, as well as contemporaries such 
as W.H.  Pugmire,  Joseph  S.  Pulver  Sr.,  and  Laird  Barron. 
Many others, such as Stephen King, have made special con-
tributions to anthologies of new Mythos tales. Few writers 
of modern horror fiction can claim there is no Lovecraft 
influence in their work.

Lovecraftian  inspired  tales  have  also  stretched  their 
tentacles out of print and into celluloid. Today, numerous 
feature and short films have been made based upon HPL’s 
stories. Notably, Stuart Gordon’s Re-Animator (a modern 
telling of "Herbert West—Reanimator") and Dagon (a con-

24 

Call of C