 the Keeper rolls 08, 38 and 98. 98 is both a fumble 
and a malfunction (see Malfunctions, below). The Keeper describes it as a malfunction—the gun jams.
Harvey’s action:

Harvey breaks cover, runs in and punches the gangster. The gangster dodges and Harvey misses.

Round three:

Rodger would normally go first this round with his readied pistol but, as he dived for cover in the last round, he loses 
his next action. Harvey is fighting the gangster in hand-to-hand combat. The machine gun is jammed, but the gangster 
could still strike Harvey with it.
The gangster’s action:

Realizing his gun is jammed, the gangster flees the scene.

Harvey’s action:

Harvey holds his bleeding side and looks in disbelief at Rodger! 

Rodger’s action:

Rodger can do nothing but look aghast as the gangster runs away. 

once per round until succeeding. If the roll is also a fumble, 
the Keeper may choose whether the gun malfunctions or if 
some other outcome occurs, such as hitting an  ally or  the 
wielder injuring themselves in some way.

Malfunctions
Firearms are prone to jamming or misfiring. With any at-
tack roll result equal to or higher than the firing weapon’s 
malfunction number (see Table XVII: Weapons, pages 401-
405), the shooter does not merely miss—his or her weapon 
does not fire. If the weapon is a revolver, break-open gun, or 
bolt-action rifle, the problem is merely a dud round. If the 
weapon  is  lever-action,  the  malfunction  is  a  jam.  Fixing  a 
jam takes 1D6 combat rounds, plus a successful Mechanical 
Repair roll or Firearms skill roll. The user can keep trying 

118 

Call of CthulhuWounds and 
Healing

I think they mean to get rid of me because of 
what I have discovered. There is a great black 
stone with unknown hieroglyphics half worn 
away which I found in the woods on Round 
Hill, east of here; and after I took it home 
everything became different. If they think I 
suspect too much they will either kill me or take 
me off the earth to where they come from. They 
like to take away men of learning once in a 
while, to keep informed on the state of things in 
the human world.
—H.P. Lovecraft, The Whisperer In Darkness

Descriptions of injuries should be appropriate 
to  the  type  and  degree  of  damage  received. 
Thus  the  investigator  is  not  merely  shot,  but 
shot  in  one  arm  or  the  other;  likewise  a  fall 
might  mean  the  investigator  has  sprained  an 
ankle, or now has a lump the back of her skull, 
as well as the hit point loss.

Keepers  should  describe  the  effects  of 
damage and try to avoid simply saying, “You 
lost 3 hit points.”

A Summary of  
Firearms Modifiers: Bonus 
and Penalty dice

Difficulty Level

Bonus Die

Penalty Die

Regular: Normal 
range

Aiming for 1 round

Hard: Long range

Point blank

Extreme: Very long 
range

Large target (Build 4+)

Target diving for 
cover

Fast-moving target 
(MOV 8+)

Partial (50%+) 
concealment

Small target (Build 
–2)

Multiple handgun 
shots

Loading and firing 
one shot in a single 
round

Firing into melee

Tracking Damage
The number of hit points of damage inflicted by an attack 
can  be  used  to  differentiate  between  regular  damage  and 
major  wounds.  Someone  beaten  unconscious  by  punches 
(each  doing  a  small  amount  of  damage)  may  awaken  the 
next  day  battered  and  bruised  but  able  to  act.  However, 
someone  who  takes  the  same  total 