rawl) skill—a failure.
Either 11 or 81 (penalty die) is rolled for the cultist’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a failure.
Rodger fails to hurt the cultist and the cultist fails to break free. The cultist is still held and the two of them are 

struggling around the platform.

Cultist’s action:
Instead of struggling to break free, the cultist now raises his feet to waist height and pushes against the nearby pillar, 
attempting to overbalance Rodger onto the floor. Rodger continues to hold on and to resist being toppled. Since his goal 
is to avoid the attack, this will use Rodger’s Dodge skill. The cultist has one penalty die for being restrained.

Rodger gets 32 for his Fighting (Brawl) skill—a Regular success.
The Keeper rolls 03 twice (penalty die) for the cultist’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—an Extreme success.
The  Keeper  rules  that  hitting  the  concrete  floor 
is  worth  1D6  damage  (like  a  club)  plus  the  cultist’s 
1D4  damage  bonus.  Rodger  takes  the  maximum  of 
10 points of damage as a result of the Extreme success 
(see  Determining  Damage,  page  103).  This  drops 
Rodger’s  hit  points  to  4.  This  is  a  major  wound  (see 
Wounds and Healing, page 119) and as a result Rod-
ger  is  automatically  knocked  prone  and  must  release 
his hold on the cultist. Rodger passes a CON roll and 
remains conscious.

Harvey’s action:
Harvey hates to leave his friend like this, but fig-
ures the cultist will probably chase after him, and so 
he flees the scene. 
Combat round three:

Rodger is prone on the floor. The cultist is running 

after Harvey.

Rodger’s action:
No  action  has  been  taken  against  Rodger  this 
round, so he is free to stand up and act. He draws a 
throwing  dagger  from  his  belt  and  throws  it  at  the 
cultist’s  back.  This  is  a  thrown  weapon  attack;  the 
Keeper decides that the cultist will not be able to dodge 
it because he is unaware of the attack (see Ranged and 
Thrown Weapons, page 108), but Rodger still has to 
roll to hit.

A  Failure  is  rolled  for  Rodger’s  Throw  skill.  The 

dagger misses.

Harvey and the cultist grapple for the briefcase.

111 

chapter 6: combatCultist’s action:
The  cultist  uses  his  Dominate  spell  to  command 
Harvey to, ‘Stop where you are”. The rules for magic 
and  spells  are  covered  in  a  later  in  this  book,  and 
all  we  need  to  know  is  that  the  spell  fails.  However 
Harvey,  knowing  that  he  is  unlikely  to  outrun  the 
cultist, chooses to pretend that he is under the cultist’s 
command; the player has an idea of her own…

 Harvey’s action:
Harvey feigns being under the cultist’s command 
as his enemy approaches. Harvey’s player then asks if 
perhaps the train is pulling in at that moment? The 
Keeper  hadn’t  previously  remarked  upon  the  train 
and  decides  to  allow  a  Luck  roll  to  determine  the 
situation. Harvey’s Luck roll is a success and the train 
is just pulling in as the cultist reaches to take the case 
from him. Harvey seizes the opportunity to push the 
cultist in front of the train, using the briefcase.

This action will require a successful fighting ma-
neuver. The Keeper loves the idea and grants Harvey a 
bonus die for his clever manipulation of the situation. 
The cultist