  but  the  investigator  to  whom 
they are connected must be involved, or given the option to 
become  involved.  In  game  play  this  means  that  the  player 
must be presented with the opportunity to make at least one 
dice roll to save the connection.

Losing one’s key connection during play requires a Sani-

ty roll (1/1D6 Sanity point loss, see Chapter 8: Sanity).

The  investigator  can  be  male  or  female.  No  game  rule 
distinguishes between male and female; neither sex has an 
advantage  over  the  other.  Players  are  encouraged  to  play 
either sex based upon their preference rather than tactical 
considerations. Some published scenarios may consider the 
effect of gender in specific societies and historical periods.

Name

The  name  of  the  investigator  is  whatever  the  player  finds 
entertaining  or  evocative.  Fashions  in  names  change  over 
the decades, and certain names may fit one historical period 
and setting better than others. 

Picture 

A  space  exists  on  the  investigator  sheet  for  you  to  draw  a 
picture of your investigator. If you prefer, you could cut out 
a  suitable  portrait  from  a  magazine  or  print  one  from  the 
Internet. It’s a useful way to introduce your investigator to the 
other players. Even a small picture can say a lot. 

Step Five: Equip the  
Investigator 
Your investigator’s day-to-day living standards are dictated 
by the Credit Rating score. The likelihood of owning major 
possessions,  such  as  a  house  and  a  car,  are  also  indicated 
by the Credit Rating score. The Keeper will advise on what 
other equipment an investigator may start out with. A player 
may buy additional items, if available for purchase.

Cash and Assets
The  following  amounts,  in  US  dollars,  by  period,  denote 
the wealth of an investigator. Cash is readily available to the 
investigator, whereas wealth that is tied up in assets can only 
be spent if time is taken to realize the capital. 

45 

chapter 3: CREATING INVESTIGATORSLiving Standards

Credit Rating 0: Penniless
A person that cannot even afford the level of ‘poor‘ is considered penniless.
Accommodation: such a person would be living on the street.
Travel: walking, hitchhiking or stowing away on a train or ship.

Credit Rating 1-9: Poor
Able to afford the bare minimum of a roof over their head and at least one 
meager meal each day. 
Accommodation: restricted to the cheapest rental housing or fleabag hotel.
Travel: public transport of the cheapest sort. Any transport possessed will be 
cheap and unreliable.

Credit Rating 10-49: Average
A reasonable level of comfort, three meals a day and occasional treat.
Accommodation: an average home or apartment, either rented or privately 
owned. Expect to stay in moderately priced hotels.
Travel: standard forms of travel can be used, but not first class. In a mod-
ern-day period, this person would be likely to own a reliable car.

Credit Rating 50-89: Wealthy
This level of wealth affords luxury and comfort.
Accommodation: a substantial residence, perhaps with some domestic help 
(butler, housekeeper, cleaner, gardener, etc.) Possibly a second home in the 
country or abroad. Stay in expensive hotels.
Travel: first class. This person would own an expensive car or equivalent.

Credit Rating 90+: Rich
This level of wealth affords great luxury and comfort.
Accommodation: a plush residence or estate with abundant domestic help (but-
ler, servants, cleaner, gardener, etc.). Second homes in the country and abroad. 
Stay in top hotels.
Travel: first class. In the modern day this person would own numerous luxury 
cars.
There is no requirement to make any account for accommodation, food or inciden-
tal travel expenses so long as an investigator’s spending