  a  victim  is  grabbed,  he  or  she 
is held to one of the horrible sucking mouths and drained of 
1D10+5 STR per round. This STR loss can-
not  be  restored.  While  being  drained, 
a  victim  is  capable  only  of  ineffectual 
writhing and screaming. 

Trample: The dark young can also tram-
ple  with  its  massive  hooves,  typically 
hooting  and  bellowing  as  it  rears  up 
and attempts to trample as many oppo-
nents as it can (up to 1D4 humans if they 
are situated close together).
Fighting 80% (40/16), damage bonus
Grab (mnvr) grabbed and held for 1D10 + 5 STR 

drain per round 

Trample 40% (20/8), damage 2D6 + damage bonus 
Dodge 40% (20/8)
Armor: Dark young are of non-Earthly material and make-up, 
so that any successful hit with a firearm attack does only 1 
point of damage per bullet (2 points for an impale). Hand-
to-hand  weapons  do  normal  damage.  Attacks  dependent  on 
heat, blast, corrosion, electrical charge, or poisoning have no 
effect.

Deep One

Skills: Stealth (bonus die in woods) 30%.
Sanity Loss: 1D3/1D10 Sanity points to see a dark young.

sides of their necks were palpitating gills and their long paws 
were webbed. They hopped irregularly, sometimes on hind 
legs and sometimes on four… their croaking, baying voices… 
held all the dark shades of expression which their staring  
faces lacked.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shadow over Innsmouth

The deep ones are an amphibious race that primarily serves 
Cthulhu and two beings known as Father Dagon and Mother 
Hydra. Locked in the timeless depths of the sea, their alien, 
arrogant  lives  are  coldly  beautiful,  unbelievably  cruel, 
and effectively immortal. They come together to 
mate or to worship Great Cthulhu, but do not 
crave touching or being touched as humans 
do.  They  are  a  marine  race,  unknown  in 
freshwater  environments,  and  globally 
have  many  cities,  all  submerged  be-
neath the waves. One is off the coast 
of  Massachusetts,  near  Innsmouth, 
while  other  sites  are  rumored  to  lie  off 
the British Isles. 

Deep  ones  may  be  worshiped  by 
humans  with  whom  they  regularly 
interbreed, for deep ones are immor-
tal  unless  slain,  and  so  are  any  hybrid 

offspring.

SPECIAL POWERS 

Breathe underwater: Dwelling under the sea, deep ones re-
quire no exterior help to breathe underwater and are equally 
capable of breathing on land.

Spells: Deep ones have a 40% chance of knowing 1D4 spells.

Recent  research  by  field  archaeologists  in  central  En-
gland have uncovered curious clues about an ancient 
Pagan  fertility  cult.  The  findings  reveal  an  unhealthy 
devotion to trees and darkly suggest hideous religious 
rites  involving  the  sacrifice  of  virgins  to  something 
named only as the "Withering Tree."

Perhaps connected are the claims of certain Ama-
zonian elders who speak of regions of the jungle that 
walk, and how gifts must be given to the "tall ones" 
to satiate their hunger. Indeed, a handful of travelers in 
these regions have returned with strange tales of being 
awoken  at  night  by  vines  seemingly  encroaching  on 
their tents, with some going as far to claim that they 
awoke to find black vines encircling their legs or arms.

Deep One
I think their predominant colour was