,  and  Persuade  Skills: 
Difficulty Levels, page 93. 

Pushing  examples:  getting  close  and  personal  to  advance 
your  argument  or  appeal  to  the  target’s  reason;  demon-
strating through logical reasoning and examples, in detail; 
using carefully preplanned suggestion techniques (possibly 
also subliminal messages) to make the target as receptive as 
possible; putting on a grand show (staging, fireworks, free 
gifts,  free  drinks,  bribes,  etc.)  in  order  to  really  push  your 
point of view front-and-center for a group of people.

Remember that this is Persuade; if the investigator be-
gins to take an alternative approach, the Keeper may ask for 
a different skill to be used. If threats are used, it may become 
Intimidate;  or  if  the  investigator  is  relying  on  befriending 
the target, it may become Charm. Switching from one to the 
other to gain a second roll still constitutes a Pushed roll.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll:  the  target 
takes  great  offence  and  refuses  to  have  any  more  to  do 
with  you;  your  bribe  worked  and  the  target  signed  the 
forms—however in the cold light of morning they feel they 
have  been  duped,  and  now  their  solicitor  has  employed  a 
private eye to find out what you’re up to, or is suing you for 
malpractice; the target doesn’t like your big talk and, from 
out of nowhere, they pull a knife on you; you persuaded the 
security guard to turn a blind eye to your robbery—however 
they lose their job and, wracked with guilt, they commit sui-
cide (the full implications of your actions hit you and you 
lose Sanity for causing the death of an innocent).

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, they may be 
found later on a street corner trying to convince passersby 
of their argument or bizarre point of view.

Pilot (Specializations) (01%)
The  air  or  water  equivalent  of  Drive Automobile,  this  is  the 
maneuver skill for flying or floating craft. You may spend skill 
points  to  purchase  any  skill  specialization.  The  generic  Pilot 
skill cannot be purchased. An investigator might have several 
versions of this skill in the spaces on the investigator sheet (such 
as Pilot Aircraft, Pilot Dirigible, etc.). Each starts at 01%. 

Anyone with modest skill can sail or fly on a calm day with 
good  visibility,  although  skill  rolls  are  required  for  storms, 
navigation  by  instrument,  low  visibility,  and  other  difficult 
situations. Bad weather, poor visibility, and damage may raise 
the difficulty level of skill rolls to pilot air and water craft. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: make an emergency landing with 

a light aircraft in a farmer’s field.

i  Hard difficulty: pilot the craft in very poor condi-
tions (e.g. extremely bad weather, faulty equipment).

Operate Heavy Machinery (01%)
Required  to  drive  and  operate  a  tank,  backhoe,  steam 
shovel, or other large-scale construction machine. For very 
different sorts of machines, the Keeper may decide to raise 
the difficulty level if the problems encountered are mostly 
unfamiliar ones; someone used to running a bulldozer, for 
instance, will not be quickly competent with the steam tur-
bines in a ship’s engine room. 

 Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: operate a crane or road digger.
i  Hard  difficulty:  manipulate  the  machinery  to 
achieve  some  delicate  or  specific  task,  such  as  un-
earthing  delicate  dinosaur  eggs  with  a  mechanical 
digger without breaking them.

Pushing