 that make up this chase will all 
be forest-based; for example:

G  Steep muddy slope, requiring a Climb roll.
G  Brook, requiring a Jump roll.
G  An  area  thick  with  young  trees,  requiring  a 

DEX roll to weave rapidly through.

If Eugene gains a lead of three locations you may 
wish to ask for Spot Hidden rolls to keep him in view, 
or Track rolls to follow his trail.

a lot of people out in the woods at the moment who could 
disrupt their mission. If left alone, Louis will slink back to-
ward the dig site to report to Turner. If followed, the undead 
monstrosity  will  conduct  a  swift  attack  to  cause  as  much 
confusion as possible, aiming to disappear into the forest. 

If  cornered,  Louis  doesn’t  want  to  risk  a  fight  to  the 
death,  so  will  wait  until  he  receives  a  blow  of  reasonable 
force to make it look feasible for him to play dead; as he is 
a walking corpse, it succeeds automatically. When left alone 
or with only minimal attention being paid to him, Louis will 
escape into the darkness. 

At midnight, everyone will be awoken by an explosion 
somewhere in the distance to the north. This is the survey 
team  blowing  the  rocks  free  from  the  crystal  monolith. 
Even though the echo of the blast dies away quickly, a faint 
blue light can be seen lingering, reflected off the base of the 
clouds for a few moments. 

Not  long  after,  there’s  a  rustling  ahead  (Listen  roll  to 
detect the noise in advance) and another posse team appears 
out of the darkness. They have had enough of the forest and 
the bad dreams—although, unless pressed, they will claim 
that they are just tired and sick, having eaten some bad meat 
(Psychology  roll  to  detect  that  they  are  lying).  They  are 
heading back to town.

Day 3: Moving Through the Forest
The investigators are near the lake and thus begin to feel and 
see  the  effects  of  Gla'aki’s  Dream  Call.  The  forest  canopy 
grows thick, leaving the investigators walking in a dim half-
light where the trees appear twisted in pain, and the color of 
the undergrowth is unnaturally pale-sickly yellow. Call for 
Listen rolls, with those succeeding realizing that there is no 
sound of wildlife at all (Sanity roll, 0/1 SAN loss). 

354 

Call of CthulhuThe paintings found at the Artists' camp.

Day 3: The Artists’ Camp
The artists’ camp is not far from the trail used by the trucks 
heading to the dig site. The campfire has long since died, the 
tents are broken and there are signs of a struggle or fight. 
Turner and his gang came in the dead of night, taking the 
artists  to  the  lake  as  an  offering  to  their  god  (converting 
them into new servants, see Day 3: The Lake, page 358). 

One  of  the  six  artists  staying  there  managed  to  escape 
the attack, but not before being badly wounded. This is the 
unfortunate  whom  the  investigators  have  already  found 
dead (see Day 2: The Artist’s Body, page 352).

There  are  four  sleeping  tents,  two  of  which  look  they 
have  been  home  to  a  man  and  woman,  with  only  single 
occupants in the other two. There are two other, larger tents. 
One of these is a large communal tent, apparently used for 
cooking, although the stove is long since cold. The last tent 
is also comparatively large and seems to be have been used 
as  a  painting  studio.  Easels  lie  broken,  paint, 