  and  torture, 
thus the Sanity cost is increased to 10 points. The fact that 
this spell does not so much animate a corpse as corrupt a 

Create Zombi 
(Create Zombie Variant)

Cost: 10 magic points; 10 Sanity points
Casting time: variable (days)
The  target  is  brought  to  near  death  by  a  paralyzing 
powder  made  from  blowfish  innards  and  alkaloids. 
This  poison  must  be  inhaled.  The  target  must  then 
succeed in an Extreme CON roll (equal to or under one-
fifth CON) to resist the poison. On a failure the target 
falls  into  a  deep  trance  indistinguishable  from  death. 
Horribly, the target is still conscious but incapable of 
movement.  The  victim  is  put  in  a  coffin  and  buried 
alive in the cemetery. A small tube connects the coffin 
to the surface so that he or she may breathe. During 
this time, the unfortunate target of the spell must pass 
a Sanity roll every three game hours or lose 1D6 SAN. 
If the target goes insane during this period, he or she 
embraces the will of the sorcerer, grateful that the terror 
of the grave has been dispelled.

Three nights later, the caster comes to the gravesite 
and casts Create Zombi. If the caster perceives mental 
resistance from the target, an opposed POW roll (see 
page 243) roll is made between the caster and target. 
Whether the target is sane or insane, success with the 
spell drains away all but 1 POW. If the spell fails, the 
caster  may  simply  cover  up  the  breathing  hole  and 
leave the victim to suffocate.

With a successful casting, the sorcerer has created 
a zombie servant, able to obey simple commands. The 
unfortunate  zombie  remains  under  the  spell  of  the 
sorcerer, until such a time as the zombie is released—
usually  meaning  the  true  death  of  the  victim  or  the 
death of its master.

living person is deemed justification to decrease the magic 
point cost from 16 to 10. The spell still takes a number of 
days  to  cast,  and  the  resulting  zombie  is  still  only  able  to 
follow basic commands.

Because this spell targets a living person there should be 
some way to oppose it. Two rolls may be used, first a CON 
roll to resist the poison and second a POW roll to resist the 
effects of the spell.  This variant might only have the subtly 
different name of Create Zombi.

Creating a New Spell
Call of Cthulhu is not a game that strives for game balance 
between  the  player  characters  and  their  enemies.  Nor  is 
there  a  level-based  structure  into  which  spells  must  fit.  If, 
for example, you create a spell that is similar to one in the 
Grimoire,  but  which  costs  less  for  greater  effect,  you  have 
not contravened any rules. You should be wary of introduc-
ing elements (such as spells) into your game that may have a 
major effect on game play. This is not to say that you should 
not do so, just that you should not do so thoughtlessly.

Look at the spells in this book and find one that approx-
imates the magnitude of effect of your new spell. This will 
provide a starting point as to the cost in magic points, POW 
and Sanity points.

Consider  how  easy  the  spell  will  be  to  cast.  A  caster 
might have 16 magic points and be able to burn some hit 
points to increase this number to, let’s say, 25. Beyond this, 
the caster will either require a reservoir of magic points or 
additional participants in the casting to donate magic points 
of their own. Some spells require POW to be spent. POW 
can be