100.

Luck
Luck  rolls  may  be  called  for  by  the  Keeper  when  circum-
stances  external  to  any  investigator  are  in  question,  and 
also when determining the fickle hand of fate. If a skill or 
characteristic is applicable to a situation then it should be 
used rather than Luck. 

If  the  Keeper  calls  for  a  Group  Luck  roll,  the  player 
whose investigator has the lowest Luck score (among those 
present in the scene) should make the roll.

If something bad is deemed to happen to one member 
of the group, the Keeper can simply ask who has the lowest 
Luck score at that moment and have that individual suffer 
the unfortunate event.

You  will  also  find  an  optional  rule  for  spending  Luck 

points to alter dice rolls at the end of this chapter.

 Finding a cab doesn’t require a dice roll, but getting 
one before the investigators lose sight of the car that 
they wish to pursue could. Credit Rating could be a 
factor in attracting the attention of a cabdriver on the 
lookout for a well-dressed fare who may tip generous-
ly.  However,  quickly  getting  a  ride  at  two  o’clock  in 
the  morning  on  the  undesirable  side  of  town  might 
not be so easy. Would there even be a cab to hail? No 
skill is going to make a cab appear at that moment. It 
is a matter of chance whether a cab may be driving 
down that road, hence a Luck roll is required.

Intelligence Rolls and Idea Rolls
An Intelligence (INT) roll may be called for by the Keeper 
when  an  investigator  is  attempting  to  solve  an  intellectual 
puzzle of some kind. By rolling equal to or below the inves-
tigator’s Intelligence, the player will receive a solution from 

the Keeper. This might include solving a crossword puzzle 
or answering a riddle.

An Idea roll is different than an Intelligence roll, although 
made in the same manner by rolling equal to or below the 
investigator’s Intelligence characteristic. An Idea roll is usually 
proposed by the players when their investigators have become 
stuck at a point in the investigation; perhaps they have com-
pletely missed a vital clue, or just don’t know what to do next, 
and so the game has stalled. The outcome of the Idea roll will 
get  the  investigation  back  on  track;  however,  the  success  or 
failure of the Idea roll determines whether the missed clue has 
been obtained easily, or at some cost to the investigators (see 
Chapter 10 for more advice about Idea rolls). 

Know Roll
All  people  know  bits  of  information  about  different  top-
ics.  The  Know  roll  represents  what’s  stored  in  the  brain’s 
intellectual  attic,  calculated  as  the  percentage  chance  that 
the investigator’s education supplied the information. Roll 
equal to or under a character’s EDU value to determine the 
success of a Know roll.

The  investigator  might  know  it  is  dangerous  to  pour 
water  into  sulfuric  acid  (without  studying  Chemistry),  or 
be  able  to  remember  the  geography  of  Tibet  (without  a 
Navigate roll), or know how many legs arachnids have (and 
possess only one percentile of Biology).

Identification  of  present-day  earthly  languages  is  an 
excellent use for the Know roll. If a specific skill is more ap-
plicable to the situation, then it should be used rather than 
making a Know roll (at the Keeper’s discretion).

Opposed Skill Rolls:  
Player versus Player  
and Melee Combat
There  may  be  times,  such  as  when  two  investigators  are 
opposing  one  another,  when  you  wish  for  both  sides  to 
roll dice to determine a victor. Opposed rolls are the stan-
dard  for  melee