 case  it  is  assumed  that  the  pursuer  quickly 
falls  behind  and  the  chase  is  not  played  out.  The 
Keeper simply describes how the pursuer loses their 
quarry in a way that fits the situation.

G  The pursuer is fast enough to catch the fleeing char-
acter. If this is the case, the game picks up the action 
at the most exciting moment—the point where the 
pursuer is closing in on the fleeing character. 

Speed Roll
This  roll  adjusts  each  participant’s  MOV  rating  for  the 
duration  of  this  chase.  Every  vehicle  and  character  has  a 
movement  rating  (MOV).  A  vehicle’s  speed  depends  on  a 
driver’s skill, while a character’s foot speed depends on their 
physical condition. 

Each participant in the chase makes a CON roll (if on 
foot or other self-propelled mode) to test his or her physical 
condition  and  endurance.  Drivers  make  a  Drive  Auto  roll 
(for vehicles) to test their handling of the vehicle.

G  On  a  success:  no  change  to  MOV  rating  for  the 

duration of this chase.

G  On  an  extreme  success:  +1  to  MOV  rating  for  the 

duration of this chase.

G  On a failure: –1 to MOV rating for the duration of 

this chase.

Compare Speeds
The  fleeing  character  escapes  if  their  adjusted  MOV  is 
higher  than  their  pursuer.  The  Keeper  is  free  to  narrate  a 
brief explanation of how this occurs, or to ask the players for 
suggestions. The chase is over and the Keeper should move 
the game on.

If the pursuer’s adjusted MOV rating is equal to or great-
er than that of the fleeing character, a chase is established, 
and the chase rules are bought into play. Proceed with Part 
2: Cut to the chase.

132 

Call of CthulhuPart 2: Cut to the Chase
If  the  fleeing  character’s  MOV  was  not  high  enough  to 
lose  the  pursuer,  the  Keeper  should  move  the  action  onto 
the  point  at  which  pursuer  is  just  two  locations  behind, 
regardless of how the chase started. This short range serves 
to focus play on the exciting part of the chase. Whether the 
characters  started  next  to  each  other  or  a  mile  apart,  the 
aim is to “cut to the chase”. The fleeing character has already 
had one chance to escape using the speed roll. The Keeper 
would normally set the starting range to two locations, but 
may opt for a tenser chase by reducing it to one location in 
exceptional circumstances. It is advised not to set the range 
beyond two locations.

Harvey  was  caught  sneaking  around  some  farm 
buildings. The farmer spotted him at a distance and 
gave  a  shout;  Harvey  turned  and  fled.  The  Keeper 
asks for speed rolls. Harvey’s player makes an Extreme 
CON  roll  and  Harvey’s  MOV  is  raised  from  6  to  7. 
The Keeper fails the CON roll for the farmer and the 
farmer’s  MOV  drops  from  7  to  6.  Harvey  has  the 
higher MOV and so he escapes. The Keeper tells how 
Harvey  glances  over  his  shoulder  to  see  the  farmer 
tripping over in the mud. No chase scene is played out. 
Alternatively,  if  Harvey  failed  his  CON  roll,  the 
situation  would  be  quite  different.  Harvey’s  MOV 
would  fall  to  5  and  the  Keeper  would  establish  the 
chase partway down the farm track with the farmer 
