 the 
sea?), and weakens the premise of the Great Old Ones 
being monstrous alien beings. 

In  addition,  for  this  current  edition,  the  designers 
have omitted classifying Mythos races into the divisions 
of Servitor and Independent (greater and lesser varieties). 
Such classifications tend to diminish the alien quality of 
these  beings,  stripping  away  some  of  the  unknowable 
quality which HPL bequeathed them. The organization, 
hierarchy,  and  allegiances  of  Mythos  races  should  be 
mysterious, inhuman, and confounding.

Naturally, if these conceptions seem good and well 
done to the Keeper, use them at will. Call of Cthulhu 
is your game.

to  summon  them.  Interventions  by  Great  Old  Ones  in 
human  affairs  are  isolated.  Some  commentators  suspect 
that these greater beings rarely think about human beings 
or  take  them  into  account.  Humanity  is  negligible  and 
unimportant. 

Certain Mythos species are often associated with partic-
ular Great Old Ones or Outer Gods—byakhee with Hastur, 
for instance, or nightgaunts with Nodens. Frequently a god 
or Great Old One manifests accompanied by several such 
beings.  Representatives  may  act  as  hit  men,  messengers, 
spies  and  delivery  boys,  frightening  off  investigators  and 
bulking  out  confrontations.  In  comparison,  Outer  Gods 
and Great Old Ones should be met infrequently.

26 

Call of CthulhuOther alien species are also important, and sometimes 
have been able to hold their own against Great Old Ones. 
Such beings vary in power and some are now extinct. They 
are intimately connected with our planet, as described in 
At  the  Mountains  of  Madness  and  “The  Shadow  Out  of 
Time.” In these stories Lovecraft gives the true history of 
the  Earth.  Some  species,  such  as  dholes  or  flying  polyps, 
make no association with particular gods or else, as with 
elder things and the Great Race, take no special interest in 
magic.

At the dawn of the Cambrian age, beings known only 
as the elder things flew to the Earth. They inhabited much 
of  the  land,  warred  with  other  species,  and  finally  were 
pushed  back  to  Antarctica.  The  elder  things,  perhaps 
mistakenly,  bred  organisms  eventually  to  evolve  into 
the  dinosaurs,  mammals,  and  humanity.  They  also  bred 
the  horrible  shoggoths,  whose  ultimate  revolt  led  to  the 
near-extinction of the elder things.

Eons  ago,  indigenous  cone-shaped  beings  had  their 
minds taken over by the Great Race of Yith, mental beings 
from  the  stars.  The  Great  Race  survived  in  their  adopted 
bodies until about 50 million years ago, when they were de-
feated by terrible flying polyps not native to this Earth, which 

the Great Race had imprisoned in vast caverns beneath the 
surface.  However,  the  Great  Race  had  already  transmitted 
their minds forward in time to escape their doom.

The star-spawn of Cthulhu came down upon the Earth 
and  conquered  a  vast  reach  of  land  in  the  primordial 
Pacific Ocean, but were trapped when it sank beneath the 
surface. The beings referred to as the fungi from Yuggoth 
(or mi-go) established their first bases on the Earth in the 
Jurassic period, about a hundred million years ago. They 
gradually reduced their bases to the tops of certain moun-
tains, where they maintain mining colonies and such.

Dozens of other races also participated in this antedi-
luvian parade, such as the serpent people who built cities 
and a civilization in the Perm