 likely to worship Great Old Ones, who are 
comparatively  near  at  hand  and  who  occasionally  partici-
pate  in  human  affairs  or  contact  individual  humans,  than 
they are to worship Outer Gods. Entire clans or cults may 
secretly  worship  a  Great  Old  One.  Lone  madmen,  on  the 

other hand, seem to prefer the Outer Gods. Beings serving 
the Great Old Ones frequently inhabit the remote fastness 
of the Earth. Investigators most often encounter their wor-
shipers and alien servants.

The Great Old Ones themselves appear to be immensely 
powerful  alien  beings  with  supernatural-seeming  abilities, 
but not to be true gods in the sense that the Outer Gods are 
reported. Each Great Old One is independent of the rest and 
many seem to be temporarily imprisoned in some way.

It  is  said  that “when  the  stars  are  right”  the  Great  Old 
Ones can plunge from world to world. When the stars are not 
right, they cannot live. “Cannot live” need not mean death, as 
the famous couplet from the Necronomicon suggests.

That is not dead which can eternal lie,

And with strange aeons even death may die.

bottom  of 

Cthulhu  is  a  Great  Old  One. 
With  the  rest  of  his  race,  he 
sleeps  in  a  vast  tomb  at  the 
the  Pacific 
Ocean.  Cthulhu  seems 
to  be  the  most  import-
ant  Great  Old  One 
on  Earth.  Others  of 
differing  forms  exist 
and they are recorded 
as  being  both 
less 
powerful  and  more 
the 
Ithaqua 
free. 
Windwalker  roams  at 
will  across  Earth’s  arc-
tic  latitudes.  Hastur  the 
Unspeakable  dwells  near 
Aldebaran  and  Cthugha 
near Fomalhaut. Other Great 
Old Ones doubtless infest other 
worlds and it may be common for 
a world to be ruled by dominant Great 
Old Ones. All those known on Earth are in-
voked or worshiped by humans but, by the evidence 
of the stories, Cthulhu is worshiped more than the rest put 
together.  Minor  Great  Old  Ones,  such  as  Quachil  Uttaus, 
usually have no worshipers, however wizards may  summon 
them. 

Interventions  by  Great  Old  Ones  in  human  affairs  are 
isolated.  Some  commentators  suspect  that  these  greater 
beings rarely think about human beings or take them into 
account. Humanity is negligible and unimportant.

The  Great  Old  Ones  include: Atlach-Nacha,  Chaugnar 
Faugn,  Cthugha,  Cthulhu,  Cyaegha,  Eihort,  Ghatanothoa, 
Gla'aki,  Hastur,  Ithaqua,  Nyogtha,  Quachil  Uttaus,  Rhan-
Tegoth, Shudde M’ell, Tsathoggua, Y’golonac, Yig, Zhar, and 
Zoth-Ommog.

342 

Call of CthulhuServitor Races
Particular species are often associated with particular Great 
Old Ones or Outer Gods—byakhee with Hastur, for instance, 
or nightgaunts with Nodens. These are servitor species, and 
frequently  an  Outer  God  or  Great  Old  One  manifests  ac-
companied  by  several  such  servitors.  Representatives  may 
act as assassins, messengers, spies, and delivery boys, fright-
ening  off  investigators  and  bulking  out  confrontations.  In 
comparison, Outer Gods and Great Old Ones should be