ky 

Ungainly
Baby-faced
Dull
Bookish
Plump
Slim
Stocky
Ordinary
Wrinkled
Sharp
Muscular
Frail

42 

Call of Cthulhu 
 
 
 
 
 
Many investigators find that a gun is a necessity.

Ideology/Beliefs
Roll 1D10 or pick one of the following. Take the result and 
make it specific and personal to your investigator.

1:  There is a higher power that you worship and pray 
to (e.g. Vishnu, Jesus Christ, Haile Selassie I).
2:  Mankind can do fine without religions (e.g. staunch 

atheist, humanist, secularist).

3:  Science has all the answers. Pick a particular aspect of 
interest (e.g. evolution, cryogenics, space exploration).
4:  A belief in fate (e.g. karma, the class system, superstitious).
5:  Member of a society or secret society (e.g. Freema-

son, Women’s Institute, Anonymous).

6:  There  is  evil  in  society  that  should  be  rooted  out. 
What is this evil? (e.g.  drugs, violence, racism).
7:  The occult (e.g. astrology, spiritualism, tarot).
8:  Politics (e.g.  conservative, socialist, liberal).
9:  “Money is power, and I’m going to get all I can” (e.g. 

greedy, enterprising, ruthless).

10: Campaigner/Activist  (e.g.  feminism,  equal  rights, 

union power).

Significant People
Roll 1D10 or pick one from each of the two lists below. Take 
the result and make it specific and personal to your investi-
gator. Think of a name for these people.

First, who?
1:  Parent (e.g. mother, father, stepmother).
2:  Grandparent  (e.g.  maternal  grandmother,  paternal 

grandfather).

3:  Sibling (e.g. brother, half-brother, stepsister).
4:  Child (son or daughter).
5:  Partner (e.g. spouse, fiancé, lover).
6:  Person  who  taught  you  your  highest  occupational 
skill. Identify the skill and consider who taught you 
(e.g.  a  schoolteacher,  the  person  you  apprenticed 
with, your father).

43 

chapter 3: CREATING INVESTIGATORS7:  Childhood  friend  (e.g.  classmate,  neighbor,  imagi-

3:  The place you met your first love (e.g. a music con-

nary friend). 

cert, on holiday, a bomb shelter).

8:  A famous person. Your idol or hero. You may never 
have even met (e.g. film star, politician, musician).
9:  A  fellow  investigator  in  your  game.  Pick  one  or 

4:  A  place  for  quiet  contemplation  (e.g.  the  library, 

country walks on your estate, fishing).

5:  A  place  for  socializing  (e.g.  gentlemen’s  club,  local 

choose randomly.

bar, uncle’s house).

10: A non-player character (NPC) in the game. Ask the 

6:  A  place  connected  with  your  ideology/belief  (e.g. 

Keeper to pick one for you.

parish church, Mecca, Stonehenge).

Next, roll to determine why that person is so significant 
to you. Not all of these options will mesh with every per-
son, so you may have to roll more than once or simply pick 
something that feels appropriate.

1:  You are indebted to them. How did they help you? 
(e.g.  financially,  they  protected  you  through  hard 
times, got you your first job).

7:  The grave of a significant person. Who? (e.g. a par-

ent, a child, a lover).

8:  Your  family