U is 
also used when making Know rolls (see Chapter 5: Game 
System).

Note: From this point forward, any references to a char-
acteristic are to the full value (dice roll multiplied by five). 
Any adjustments are made to that value. 

Luck
When creating an investigator roll 3D6 and multiply by 5 
for a Luck score. See Chapter 5: Game System for how Luck 
is used.

Age
A  player  can  choose  any  age  between  15  and  90  for  their 
investigator.  If  you  wish  to  create  an  investigator  outside 
this age range, it is up to the Keeper to adjudicate. Use the 
appropriate  modifiers  for  your  chosen  age  only  (they  are 
not cumulative).

G  15  to  19  years  old:  Deduct  5  points  among  STR 
and SIZ. Deduct 5 points from EDU. Roll twice to 
generate a Luck score (see Luck, above) and use the 
higher value.

G 20 to 39 years old: Make an improvement check for EDU.
G 40 to 49 years old: Make 2 improvement checks for 
EDU  and  deduct  5  points  among  STR,  CON  or 
DEX, and reduce APP by 5.

G 50 to 59 years old: Make 3 improvement checks for 
EDU  and  deduct  10  points  among  STR,  CON  or 
DEX, and reduce APP by 10.

G 60 to 69 years old: Make 4 improvement checks for 
EDU  and  deduct  20  points  among  STR,  CON  or 
DEX, and reduce APP by 15.

G 70 to 79 years old: Make 4 improvement checks for 
EDU  and  deduct  40  points  among  STR,  CON  or 
DEX, and reduce APP by 20.

G 80 to 89 years old: Make 4 improvement checks for 
EDU  and  deduct  80  points  among  STR,  CON  or 
DEX, and reduce APP by 25.

To make an EDU improvement check, simply roll per-
centile dice. If the result is greater than your present EDU, 
add  1D10  percentage  points  to  your  EDU  characteristic 
(note that EDU cannot go above 99).

The Horror in Clay

Half and Fifth Characteristic Values
Once the percentage values for each characteristic have been 
determined, the next step is to write in the half and fifth val-
ues for each characteristic on the investigator sheet, entering 
the values alongside the percentage. 

G Divide the percentage value by two, rounding down, 

and enter after the "half " percentage value.

G Divide the percentage value by five, rounding down, 
and enter the "fifth" value after the half value.

When a "characteristic value" is referred to in the text, 
this means the full value (highest number). Where half or 
fifth values are required, this will be clearly stated, normally 
called Hard (half value) and Extreme (fifth value) rolls.

Half and fifth are the only fractions used in relation to 
characteristics and skills in the game and all the numbers are 
calculated up front so that play is not hindered by mental 
calculations. A  Quick Reference Chart for Half and Fifth 
Values can be found on page 49.

Alternatively, an electronic investigator sheet that auto-
matically does all the calculations for you is available from 
the www.chaosium.com website.

32 

Call of CthulhuOther Attributes

Damage Bonus and Build [STR & SIZ]
All investigators, Keeper-controlled characters and monsters 
have attributes known as "Damage Bonus" (DB) and Build. 
Larger and stronger creatures and humans do more physical 
damage than their weaker brethren. 

To determine damage bonus, add STR to SIZ and look 
up  the  total  on  Table  1:  Damage  Bonus  and  Build.  Each