;  some  higher  authority  seizes  the  site  or  the  finds 
from your control; publicity leads to the finds being stolen.
If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
keeps digging deeper, ever deeper—the truth is down there 
somewhere.

Art and Craft (Specializations) (05%)
The investigator sheet contains blank spaces for specializa-
tions of this skill. For example: 

i  Acting
i  Barber
i  Calligraphy
i  Carpenter
i  Cook
i  Dancer
i  Fine Art
i  Forgery

i  Writer
i  Morris Dancer
i  Opera Singer
i  Painter and Decorator
i  Photographer
i  Potter
i  Sculptor
i  Vacuum-Tube Blower

Many  of  these  examples  are  skills  directly  linked  to  a 
profession,  but  the  skill  may  just  be  a  leisure  pursuit. You 
may spend skill points to purchase any skill specialization. 
The generic "Art and Craft" skill cannot be purchased.

This skill may enable the making or repair of an item—
typically requiring equipment and time, to be determined 
by the Keeper, if necessary. In a situation where graduations 
of  success  might  be  appropriate,  a  higher  level  of  success 
indicates the item made is of high quality and/or precision.

"These aren't any hieroglyphs that I know of."

An art or craft skill might also be used to make a dupli-
cate or fake item. In such a case, the difficulty level would 
depend on the intricacy and distinctiveness of the original 
to be copied. In the case of faking documentation, a specific 
specialization (Forgery) is used.

A  successful  roll  might  provide  information  about 
an item, such as where or when it might have been made, 
some  point  of  history  or  technique  concerning  it,  or  who 
might have made it. The holder of a specialism would have a 
breadth of knowledge within a particular field—knowledge 
of the subject, its history and contemporary practitioners, as 
well as the ability to perform it.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: making a standard, saleable item.
i  Hard difficulty: making a higher quality or particu-

larly intricate piece.

Pushing examples: reworking the object, piece or compo-
sition  from  scratch;  conducting  further  research;  checking 
with another expert.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  A  vast 
amount  of  time  and  money  is  wasted  in  creating  a  failed 
attempt;  the  audience  or  customer  is  highly  offended  or 
physically injured by some aspect of your work; the critics 
slam your work, and no one desires your services any longer.
If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
creates a transgressive work that shocks and causes violent 
reactions  in  the  viewer—perhaps  only  the  most  decadent 
could appreciate it.

58 

Call of CthulhuExamples of Art and Craft Specializations

Acting (05%):  The  performer  is  trained  in  theatrical  and/
or  film  acting  (in  the  modern  era,  this  may  also  include 
television), able to adopt a persona, memorize scripts and 
utilize  stage/movie  make-up  to  alter  their  appearance.  See 
Disguise (page 62).

Fine  Art  (05%):  The  artist  is  accomplished  in  the  art  of 
painting  (oils,  acrylic,  watercolor),  as  well  as  sketching  in 
pencil, crayon or pastels. While serious works of art might 
take many days or months to complete, the artist may