 achieve this outcome is to give the arch-villain 
a Luck pool—this does not guarantee escape, but it greatly 
increases the villain’s effectiveness and improves the chances 

200 

Call of Cthulhuwill know if intruders broke in through the study window 
(which you can decide has a flowerbed  outside), in which 
case there is indeed mud on the carpet!

When disseminating information, try to restrict yourself 
to describing evidence as found and leave it up to the players 
to deduce what has happened. You might inform the players 
that there was mud on the carpet, but avoid explaining the 
reason for it. 

Leaving  areas  of  doubt  and  uncertainty  is  essential  to 
promoting a sense of intrigue among the players. Fear finds 
fertile  ground  in  ignorance,  uncertainty,  and  doubt.  Just 
tell the players what their investigators perceive and let the 
players make their own deductions.

The  investigators  shoot  a  monster,  avoid  saying,  “It’s 
dead”. Simply inform the players that they cannot perceive 
any signs of life. Now the players are uncertain—is the thing 
dead  or  alive? A  First Aid  or  Medicine  roll  will  determine 
whether a person is alive or dead for certain.

The investigators search a room and fail their Spot Hid-
den roll. Avoid saying, “There’s nothing there”. Tell the players 
they  have  not  found  anything.  Now  they  are  wondering  if 
they missed something. Pushing the Spot Hidden roll would 
allow them to know if they have missed a clue or not.

The players will think of avenues of investigation that will 
surprise  you.  Be  creative  and  try  to  incorporate  their  ideas 
and allow leads to manifest wherever it makes sense for them 
to do so. A player may think to look through the bookshelves 
of the study for a family tree; the text of the scenario may not 
list the presence of a family tree, but such a thing might be 
quite feasible, so reward this idea and build on it. Remember 
the principle of “Yes, and…” and “Yes, but…”.

Yes, and…: The family tree is inscribed inside a family 

bible along with some other useful hints.

Yes,  but…: You  don’t  want  the  players  to  discover  the 
clue so easily, in which case, rather than simply not finding a 
family tree on the shelves, perhaps the investigator finds the 
family bible from which the first few pages have been torn 
out or certain names erased. 

Either of these options foster further investigation and 
are  preferable  to  the  simple  blocking  statement, “No,  you 
can’t find a family tree.”

Flying polyps are very dangerous Mythos beings.

of  any  escapes  performed  within  the  rules  (see  Spending 
Luck, page 99).

If you have an important non-player character (especial-
ly in a campaign) who is likely to crop up numerous times, 
then you may provide that non-player character with a Luck 
pool equal to his or her POW. This can be spent to affect dice 
rolls, but the pool is not replenished—thus it might be used 
to cause mayhem and allow an escape, although eventually 
the non-player character’s luck will run dry.

One  of  the  reasons  for  restricting  the  use  of  Luck  for 
non-player characters is that many non-player characters will 
only appear once, and thus could easily spend all their luck 
there and then, making them very powerful during the short 
time that they are in play. Non-player characters who appear 
multiple times will have a reason to reserve their Luck.

Disseminating Information
Expect  the  players  to  investigate  and  ask  questions.  That 
statement may sound obvious; however, these investigations 
will lead the players to ask questions regarding matters you 
have not considered. If there has been a murder, for exam-
ple,  you  need  to  have  a  clear  vision  of  what