 care (roll 1D100 per month): 

01–95: success (or under psychoanalysis skill); add 1D3 San-
ity points. Make a Sanity roll—if successful, insanity is cured.
96–100: failure; lose 1D6 Sanity points.

Treatment at institution (roll 1D100 per month): 

01–50: success (or under Psychoanalysis skill); add 1D3 San-
ity points. Make a Sanity roll—if successful, insanity is cured.
51-95: no progress.
96–100: failure; lose 1D6 Sanity points. 

417 

chapter 16: APPENDICES 
 
 
Table VII: 
Bouts of Madness—Real Time (roll 1D10):

1) Amnesia: The investigator has no memory of events that have taken place since they were last in a place of safety. For example, it seems 
to them that one moment they were eating breakfast and the next they are facing a monster. This lasts for 1D10 rounds.

2) Psychosomatic disability: The investigator suffers psychosomatic blindness, deafness, or loss of the use of a limb or limbs for 1D10 rounds.

3) Violence: A red mist descends on the investigator and they explode in a spree of uncontrolled violence and destruction directed at their 
surroundings, allies or foes alike for 1D10 rounds. 

4) Paranoia: The investigator suffers severe paranoia for 1D10 rounds; everyone is out to get them; no one can be trusted; they are being spied 
on; someone has betrayed them; what they are seeing is a trick.

5) Significant Person: Review the investigator’s backstory entry for Significant People. The investigator mistakes another person in the 
scene for their Significant Person. Consider the nature of the relationship; the investigator acts upon it. This lasts 1D10 rounds. 

6) Faint: The investigator faints. They recover after 1D10 rounds.

7) Flee in panic: The investigator is compelled to get as far away as possible by whatever means are available, even if it means taking the only 
vehicle and leaving everyone else behind. They travel for 1D10 rounds.

8) Physical hysterics or emotional outburst: The investigator is incapacitated from laughing, crying, screaming, etc. for 1D10 rounds.

9) Phobia: Investigator gains a new phobia. Roll 1D100 on Table IX: Sample Phobias, or the Keeper may choose one. Even if the source 
of the phobia is not present, the investigator imagines it is there for the next 1D10 rounds.

10) Mania: The investigator gains a new mania. Roll 1D100 on Table X: Sample Manias, or the Keeper may choose one. The investigator 
seeks to indulge in their new mania for the next 1D10 rounds.

Table VIII : 
Bouts of Madness—Summary (roll 1D10):

1) Amnesia: The investigator comes to their senses in some unfamiliar place with no memory of who they are. Their memories will slowly 
return to them over time.

2) Robbed: The investigator comes to their senses 1D10 hours later, having been robbed. They are unharmed. If they were carrying a 
Treasured Possession (see investigator backstory), make a Luck roll to see if it was stolen. Everything else of value is automatically missing.

3) Battered: The investigator comes to their senses 1D10 hours later to find themselves battered and bruised. Hit points are reduced to 
half of what they were before going insane, though this does not cause a Major wound. They have not been robbed. How the damage was 
sustained is up to the Keeper.

4) Violence: The investigator explodes in a spree of violence and destruction. When the investigator comes to their senses, their actions 
may or may not be apparent or remembered. Who or what the investigator has inflicted violence upon and whether they have killed or 
simply inflicted harm is up to the Keeper.

5) Ideology/Beliefs: Review the investigator’s backstory entry for Ideology and Beliefs. The investigator manifests one of these in an extreme, 
crazed and demonstrative manner. For example