 
more creative and unpredictable play. 

How to Use a Published Scenario
The great thing about a published scenario is that the work 
has been done for you and lots of detailed background and 
setting  material  is  provided  for  you  to  use.  Depending  on 
how you approach it, this can feel like a blessing or a burden. 
If  you  are  someone  who  can  read  a  large  quantity  of  text 
quickly, identify the salient points and retain the informa-
tion, then you are off to a flying start. Most of us, however, 
will find we forget certain parts, requiring us to break the 
flow of the game to consult the scenario text, clumsily leafing 
through the pages in search of those elusive but seemingly 
all-important details.

So  how  best  to  use  a  published  scenario?  To  start 
with,  leaf  through  the  scenario  and  gain  an  overview  of 
the  chapters  and  contents,  then  read  the  whole  document 
thoroughly from cover to cover once. You should now have 
a  good  understanding  of  what  the  scenario  is  about,  but 
you  may  still  be  hazy  on  some  of  the  details,  perhaps  not 
quite grasping the roles played by some of the non-player 
characters; this is fine. 

Next, work through the scenario again, this time taking 
notes.  Try  to  write  a  bare  minimum.  Avoid  superfluous 
detail or things that you feel confident that you’ll remember 

219 

chapter 10: playing the game220 

Call of Cthulhuanyway. Identify text that is simply adding color and reduce 
or omit it. For example, the text might describe a bedroom 
in  great  detail,  down  to  the  color  of  the  bedspread,  the 
wallpaper,  the  contents  of  the  bedside  cabinet  and  other 
furnishings. If you are confident that none of this informa-
tion is vital and that you can improvise a description of a 
similar  room  during  play  then  there  is  no  need  to  record 
the details in your notes. You are not doing the published 
adventure any disrespect—the printed text of the scenario 
has served its purpose in communicating to you, the reader, 
an image of the bedroom. When you run the game you will 
be  able  to  describe  a  bedroom  inspired  by  what  you  read 
in  the  scenario.  Whether  the  bedspread  is  pink  or  blue  is 
neither here nor there. What may be important is whether it 
is an opulent suite or a seedy motel room, and you will know 
this from having read the published text. 

Be sure to identify and note down anything that is es-
sential to the scenario. You will know what is important and 
what is not because you have read the scenario once already. 
Clearly if the scenario notes that there is a copy of the Cultes 
des Goules in the bedside cabinet then you need to note its 
presence. In your mind it might better be concealed under 
the bed or beneath a loose floorboard—the location is not 
important, only its presence.

To run a scenario effectively you need to feel ownership of 
it. After this second reading of the scenario, you should have 
a set of notes from which you can run the game in your own 
way. See how you have distilled a published scenario back to 
Keeper’s notes, perhaps similar to those used by the author 
when the game was run for the very first time. Use these notes 
as a framework and with your players you’ll create wonderful 
new stories that would amaze the scenario’s author!

A published scenario describes a room as follows:

Main bedroom: A comfortable bedroom with a 
large window overlooking the rear garden. Clothes 
lie  scattered  across  the  floor  and  the  room  would 
benefit from a