  large  enough,  it  could  seize  an 
investigator  and  carry  him  or  her  off  next  round, 
perhaps flying away or carrying the held investiga-
tor aloft with a writhing tentacle.

i  A  standard  car  has  Build  5,  so  any  monster  with 
Build  3+  has  the  potential  to  damage  vehicles. 
Larger monsters might even seize hold of a vehicle 
containing  the  investigators,  much  like  an  angry 
child throwing a cereal box.

Monsters and Fighting Back
Unless a monster is trying to escape or being especially crafty, 
you should respond to investigator attacks by fighting back 
rather than dodging. When fighting back, a monster should 
generally use its basic Fighting skill. A monster that has more 
than one attack per round may also dodge or fight back that 
number of times before its enemies are granted a bonus die 
for outnumbering it (see Outnumbered, page 108). Thus a 
ghoul  with  three  attacks  can  fight  back  three  times  before 
its attackers gain a bonus die to their attacks. Some Mythos 
entities can never be outnumbered by investigators.

Killing Monsters
Rather than declaring that a monster or opponent is dead, 
the Keeper is encouraged to describe what the investigators 
can see—the monster has stopped moving, it appears to be 
melting, a thick green fluid is welling up from a hole in the 
side of its body, and so on. Remember that these monsters 
are strange and alien beings; determining death should not 
be simple. Some monsters (when reduced to unconscious-
ness or zero hit points) may appear to be dead, only to rise 
again moments or hours later to inflict a grisly revenge on 
their attackers. Only a successful First Aid or Medicine roll 
will determine for sure whether a being is alive or dead.

Monster Spells
The higher a monster’s POW and INT, the more likely it is 
to know spells. As a guide, those with POW and INT of 50 
to 100 might know 1D6 spells. In choosing spells, consider 
the  purpose  and  the  nature  of  the  creature.  Keepers  are 
encouraged to manipulate and alter spells to better suit par-
ticular Mythos monsters. No casting roll is required for the 
initial casting of a spell by a monster. Expend magic points 
as required by the spell cost, but disregard any SAN costs or 
Sanity rolls. 

Suitable spells for each monster are suggested, although 

others may be known if the Keeper wishes.

In many cases, the Mythos monsters described here wor-
ship one or more of the Outer Gods or Great Old Ones, and it 
should be assumed that they would know at least one spell to 
contact, call, or summon their masters. 

Chapter 13: Grimoire details many suitable spells, howev-
er Keepers are encouraged to adjust spells and use the deeper 
magic versions; after all, these beings are not some fumbling 
human wizard seeking the mysteries of magic, but rather the 
very embodiment of the Mythos in all of its horrific splendor. 

Section One:  
Mythos Monsters
This  section  details  the  abominations  of  the  Cthulhu 
Mythos—creatures  of  this  world  and  from  beyond.  The 
monsters  described  here  are,  in  the  main,  repugnant  to 
humanity in their visage and aspect, being a threat to both 
an investigator’s mind and body.

Keepers  are  reminded  that  these  embodiments  of  the 
Mythos  are  not  uniform  in  their  appearance,  and  distinc-
tions can be made between creatures of the same race. 

When portraying a Mythos monster, the Keeper should 
avoid only illustrating the visual aspect to the players. Smell 
and sound are important signifiers, so too is the otherworld-
ly  atmosphere  such  creatures  create.  As  the  Nec