,  Pilot 
Helicopter. Piloting skill may be transferred to an alternative 
form of aircraft, but the level of difficulty may be increased.

Pilot (Boat): understands the behavior of small motor and 
sailing craft in wind, storms, and tides, and can read wave 
and wind action to suggest hidden obstacles and approach-
ing  storms.  In  a  wind,  novice  sailors  will  find  docking  a 
rowboat difficult. 

Psychoanalysis (01%) 
The skill refers to the range of emotional therapies, not just 
to Freudian procedures. Formal psychotherapy was still in 
its infancy in the 1890s, though some procedures are as old 
as  humanity.  Sometimes  it  was  looked  on  as  a  fraudulent 
study,  even  in  the  1920s.  The  common  term  then  for  an 
analyst or scholar of emotional disorders was alienist. In the 
present day, a combination of therapies has evolved, and this 
skill now could be justly named Psychiatric Treatment.

Intensive  psychoanalysis  can  return  Sanity  points  to 
an  investigator  patient.  Once  per  game  month,  to  learn 
the progress of the therapy, make a 1D100 roll against the 
analyst or doctor’s Psychoanalysis skill. If the roll succeeds, 

the patient gains 1D3 Sanity points. If the roll fails, add no 
points.  If  the  roll  is  fumbled,  then  the  patient  loses  1D6 
Sanity points, and treatment by that analyst concludes: there 
has been some sort of serious incident or dramatic setback 
in  the  therapy,  and  the  relationship  between  patient  and 
therapist has broken down beyond saving.

In the game, psychoanalysis alone does not speed recov-
ery from indefinite insanity, which requires 1D6 months of 
institutional (or similar) care, of which psychotherapy may 
form a part.

Successful use of this skill can allow a character to cope 
with the subject of a phobia for a short time, or to see delu-
sions for what they are. In play this would allow for an insane 
investigator to ignore the effects of a phobia or mania for a 
brief  period,  allowing  a  claustrophobe  to  hide  in  a  broom 
cupboard  for  ten  minutes,  for  example.  Equally  a  person 
might make a Psychoanalysis roll to help a delusional investi-
gator see through their hallucination for a brief period.

Treatment  by  a  psychotherapist  can  add  Sanity  points 

during indefinite insanity (see Sanity, page 154).

Psychoanalysis cannot increase a person’s Sanity points 

above 99–Cthulhu Mythos.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: standard therapy within a hospi-

tal setting.

i  Hard  difficulty:  intermittent  therapy  over  a  longer 

period.

Pushing  examples:  this  is  a  skill  which  can  be  attempted 
month  after  month  without  requiring  a  Pushed  skill  roll. 
However,  if  one  failed  the  skill  roll  in  a  given  month,  one 
might choose to push a roll during a single session on the 
following day with some form of radical intervention (if a 
quick result was required). For example, forcing a patient to 
face their fear by actively forcing them to confront its phys-
ical reality; getting the patient’s friends and close colleagues 
to actively participate in the therapy.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: curing the 
patient’s fear of spiders by locking them in a room full of 
tarantulas  backfires  as  the  patient  goes  berserk  (possible 
damage to self and to others) and now thinks they are the 
"spider  king"  (the  patient  now  has  a  new  mania  and