  after  their  arrival  on  prehistoric  Earth.  Built  to 
combat the carnivorous flying polyps, it is a camera-shaped 
weapon that fires great gouts of electricity. 

Numerous varieties exist. A common one contains a pack 
of  32  charges  and  takes  1  round  to  reload.  Multiple  charges 
may be fired at once, though each charge used above four at 
one time gives a 5% cumulative chance of burning out the gun. 
Each charge does 1D10 damage to the target of the weapon. 

Lightning Gun

Base  range  is  100  yards.  For  each  additional  100  yards 
add one penalty to the attack roll and decrease the damage 
roll result by 3. At point-blank range add one bonus die to 
the attack roll.

An investigator can figure out how to use this weapon 
with  a  successful  INT  roll.  The  base  chance  for  a  human 
attacking with the Firearms (Lightning Gun) skill is 10%.

Mist Projector 

Used by: Mi-go
A  device  looking  like  a  cluster  of  twisted  metal  tubes  that 
projects  a  cone  of  icy  mist  in  a  fat  cloud  about  ten  feet 

Mist Projector

272 

Call of CthulhuFlying polyps
The malicious flying polyps  
colonized Earth aeons ago, 
apparently after flying to Earth 
on their own power. The flying 
polyps built great basalt  
cities—the very ones they were 
later sealed in—but there is no 
other evidence of their  
technology. It is assumed that it 
is at least at the level of  
humanity’s during the late Middle 
Ages.

across. The mist looks like thick white fog and is intensely 
cold.  The  mist  does  1D10  points  of  damage  per  round  of 
exposure, less one point if the targets are dressed in warm 
clothing  or  three  points  for  thick,  arctic  clothing.  Hiding 
inside a car affords four points of protection; however the 
mist freezes automobile engines, running or not, and the car 
will not start or restart until it warms up. The weapon’s pro-
jection can be sustained—mi-go generally spray mist over a 
target for several rounds, ensuring the death of unprotected 
humans.

An investigator can figure out how to use this weapon 
with  a  successful  INT  roll.  Because  the  mist  travels  much 
more slowly than a bullet, investigators who have seen mist 
projectors  in  action  and  who  have  freedom  of  movement 
(i.e. they are not caught in an enclosed space), can dodge the 
slow-moving mist streams with a successful DEX roll. 

The weapons carry enough charge for twenty shots, each 

potentially lasting an entire combat round. 

Plutonian Drug

I have here five pellets of the drug Liao. It was used by the 
Chinese philosopher Lao Tze, and while under its influence he 
visioned Tao. Tao is the most mysterious force in the world; it 
surrounds and pervades all things

—Frank Belknap Long, The Hounds of Tindalos

Used by: Anyone
This drug can send the user’s mind back in time, sometimes 
so far back that the user may even encounter the hounds of 
Tindalos (page 298)—entities capable of traveling up and 
down time via its "corners". 

Those taking the drug must make a Sanity roll or lose 
1D8  sanity  points;  however  if  they  come  across  Mythos 
entities on their journey back in time they are subject to 
the standard sanity losses for viewing those entities. Taking 
the plutonian drug and witnessing the true history of the 
universe  and  planet  Earth  provides  the  user  with  1D6 
Cthulhu Mythos points.

The drug can appear in liquid or tablet form and