 be 
appropriate. Credit Rating can be used in place of APP to 
gauge first impressions.

Credit Rating is not so much a skill as a gauge of financial 
wealth, and should not be ticked as other skills are. A high 
Credit Rating can be a useful resource in play, and so should 
be paid for with skill points when creating an investigator. 
Each occupation has a starting range for Credit Rating, and 
skill points should be spent to achieve a rating therein. 

Call of Cthulhu is not a game that requires money to be 
carefully tracked; however, it is useful to know the bounds of 
an investigator’s financial reach—for example, can the inves-
tigator afford to employ a team of archaeologists 
and workers to excavate an Egyptian tomb? 
An  investigator’s  Credit  Rating  can 
change  over  time.  Investigators  of 
the Cthulhu Mythos are prone to 
insanity,  and  this  may  lead  to 
loss of employment and thus 
a  lowering  of  the  investiga-
tor’s  Credit  Rating  score. 
See  Credit  Rating  and 
Investigator Expenditure 
(page  95)  for  a  more 
in-depth  study  of  Credit 
Rating and its use.

Opposing 
level: 

skill/Difficulty 

i  Regular 

difficulty: 
loan  from 

getting  a 
a  bank  or  business; 
bypassing  a  demand  for 
credentials;  gaining  a  line  of 
credit in a store or casino; getting 
the best table in a fancy restaurant.

i  Hard  difficulty:  obtaining  credit  or  a  loan  while 
implicated (or found guilty) in a criminal investiga-
tion; gaining favorable attention after being vilified 
in the media.

Pushing examples: you offer your house and/or other valu-
ables  to  secure  money  from  a  loan  shark;  you  attempt  to 
pressure the bank manager into giving you a loan. 

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  the  loan 
shark turns nasty and directs his boys to teach you a lesson; 
the bank manager calls the police; you are loaned the money, 
but it is a ploy to put you in deeper debt with a mobster who 
plans to buy out your debt and later call on you for a favor.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
loses all faith in capitalism and begins freely handing out his 
or her money to passersby. 
(See General Living Standards, page 95 for more details.)

Cthulhu Mythos (0%)
This skill reflects understanding of the inhuman (Lovecraf-
tian) Cthulhu Mythos. It is not founded on the accumulation 
of  knowledge  as  academic  skills  are.  Rather,  it  represents 
the opening and tuning of the human mind to the Cthulhu 
Mythos.  Thus,  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  derived  from  encoun-
tering Deep Ones (for example) is transferable to other situa-
tions and entities. Also referred to as "that which man should 
not  know,"  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  is  antithetical  to  human 
understanding, and exposure to it undermines human sanity. 
No investigator may take points in Cthulhu Mythos as 
a  starting  skill  (unless  agreed  with  the  Keeper).  There  is 
no tick-box for Cthulhu Mythos on the investigator sheet, 
as  successful  use  of  the  skill  does  not  offer  an  increase  in 
the investigator’s percentiles in the skill. Instead, points in 
Cthulhu Mythos are gained by encounters with the Mythos 
that result in insanity, by insane insights into the 
true nature of the universe, and by reading 
forbidden  books  and  other  Mythos 
writings. A