 

The streets of Bennington are buzzing with news and 
gossip  about  the  gunfight  last  night  on  the  edge  of 
the forest. There is talk of police cars, sirens, shotgun 
blasts and escaped kidnappers. The locals are saying 
that three gangsters were killed and two police officers 
were shot—some say wounded, others say dead. Post-
ers are going up across town saying that the sheriff is 
organizing a manhunt to find Lucas Strong’s missing 
daughter and catch the escaped gangsters.  Everyone 
in  town  is  invited  to  the  meeting  at  the  Police  Sta-
tion. Rumor has it that Mr. Strong has announced a 
$5,000 reward for the safe return of his daughter and 
is willing to pay anyone who can aid in her rescue.

349 

chapter 15: scenariosThe scenario begins at 10 am with the investigators attend-
ing the briefing at the Police Station. Sheriff Jenkins explains 
the background to what’s happened:

G  Sidney  Harris  and  his  gang  have  kidnapped  Jane 

Strong, daughter of Lucas Strong. 

G  Harris  demanded  a  ransom  of  $10,000  for  Jane’s 
return, and a hand-over was arranged for last night 
at the edge of town.

G  All  seemed  to  be  going  smoothly  until  Harris  and 
his men got twitchy and lead started flying. Chaos 
ensued with both sides shooting it out.

G  After  shooting  two  police  officers,  Harris  and  one 
other member of his gang got away with the ransom 
money. 

G  The  escapees  have  fled  back  into  the  forest,  where 

they are believed to be holding Jane.

G  Lucas  Strong  is  in  attendance  and  adds  that  he  is 
personally offering the $25 per day to anyone who 
joins the hunt. He adds that he would consider it a 
“real kindness” if Harris’ dead body was also brought 
back. He reiterates the message on the posters seen 
around town, that he’s willing to pay anyone who is 
willing  to  help, “Man  or  woman,  black  or  white,  I 
don’t care. Just bring my little girl home and you’ll 
be paid!”

If the investigators wish to question the sheriff or Strong 
further they may do so, although both know little more than 
what’s already been said. If the investigators press Strong for 
more money or make a scene, the sheriff will take objection 
and warn the investigators to mind their manners.

The  volunteers  are  then  grouped  together,  with  the 
investigators placed in the same team. They are given until 
noon (two hours) in which to get their supplies and equip-
ment together. 

Investigators  wishing  to  buy  additional  weapons  or 
equipment may do so from Arthur J. Spence’s Hardware and 
Gun Store on Main Street (refer to equipment and weapon 
lists on pages 396–406).  

Should the investigators go looking for unusual equip-
ment  then  Luck  rolls  may  be  called  for.  Remember  that 
this is essentially a frontier town and so some items will be 
impossible to buy in the time the investigators have.

Anyone  wanting  to  work  out  the  route  that  Harris  is 
using  might  look  to  the  local  library  or  newspaper  office. 
Both carry an archive of the Bennington Banner. There are 
numerous  articles  going  back  to  the  Civil  War  (no  Library 
Use roll required) about the forest being used as a hideout for 
fugitives trying to evade conscription into the Union Army. 
Many are believed to have fled to the Canadian border. More 
recent articles describe Strong’s plan for the reservoir and the 
fact that he has recently sent out a geological team to survey 
for precious minerals in what will become the reservoir’s bed.
Investigators  may  also  try  to