 Pushed 
Casting Roll, page 178).

You  may  decide  to  be  more  generous  in  the  setting  of 
goals for the use of the spontaneous Cthulhu Mythos skill 
if the goal is associated with the investigator’s profession. In 
this way a doctor could become a Herbert West-style char-
acter—a mad doctor bent on the reanimation of dead tissue.

Entering the World of the Cthulhu Mythos
In  creating  atmosphere,  the  Keeper  should  play  up  the 
transition that the investigators go through when they come 
to  realize  the  reality  of  the  Mythos.  For  someone  with  no 
Cthulhu Mythos skill points or who disbelieves in it (see Be-
coming a Believer, page 179), the world is a place of hope, a 
place where mankind has the potential to live in happiness, 
a place where the investigator can look forward to settling 
down, starting a family and enjoying a long and happy life. 
However, for those who take the irrevocable step and com-

prehend the true nature of the universe, that optimistic light 
is extinguished forever. 

When  one  becomes  a  believer,  the  world  changes  and 
becomes a threatening and unpleasant place—people look 
strange  and  threatening,  and  the  wind  blows  cold.  There 
are no more tranquil places, only places of dread. The once 
great  achievements  of  mankind  are  now  seen  as  shallow 
mockeries.  Where  once  cheery  faces  gathered  to  welcome 
the  investigator,  now  there  are  only  lurking  figures  whose 
eyes  are  filled  with  malice  and  resentment.  Those  with 
knowledge  of  the  Mythos  face  a  worse  fate  than  most.  As 
their sanity is drained away, the nightmares increase, until 
they perceive the horror even with their waking mind. When 
all sanity is gone, as their mind snaps, they hear it clearly, but 
for a moment:  the dreadful Call of Cthulhu.

Ending a Story
Everyone likes a good ending, but what constitutes a good 
ending? Consider films: some end with a bang (Star Wars), 
others  end  at  a  crucial  point  (The  Italian  Job)  and  some 
simply stop mid-flow (No Country for Old Men).

Potentially,  a  game  could  continue  on  and  on,  but  as 
Keeper you should know when the story comes to an end. 
Sometimes the ending is obvious, other times it is a matter 
of deciding when to say, “cut”. If the investigators defeat the 
big bad in a battle, this clearly presents one way to end the 
game. Other times an ending may not be so clear. 

If  you’ve  been  playing  for  several  hours  and  want  to 
draw  the  session  to  a  close,  you  have  a  couple  of  options. 
Ask the players if they want to continue the story another 
day. If so, try to bring the game to a cliffhanger or dramatic 
moment and then cease play. If people want to end the game 
then fast-forward to the final scene. An Idea roll (page 199) 
may be useful here to decide whether the investigators begin 
the final scene in an advantageous position or not. Tell the 
players  what  they  find  out  and  where  it  takes  them,  and 
then kick off the final scene in medias res. The movie Planet 
Terror (a.k.a. Grindhouse) illustrates this approach wonder-
fully: simulating the outdated problem of having a missing 
reel of film, the movie jumps to a later scene of carnage with 
the protagonists in the thick of the action.

Investigator Death
In some instances, death (even death of the whole investi-
gator  group)  can  be  a  dramatic  and