6 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 hour 

A  ritual  liquid  must  be  poured  over  a  prepared 
corpse. The ingredients of the liquid differ depending 
on the version of the spell; however, the blood of the 
sorcerer  appears  common  to  all.  Other  ingredients 
should  be  determined  by  the  Keeper  (at  least  one 
should  be  costly  or  illegal,  or  perhaps  radioactive). 
Immediately after, the caster intones the spell. 

Following  the  ritual,  the  corpse  rouses.  Literally 
mindless,  the  zombie  is  akin  to  a  wild  animal  and  is 
not under the control of its creator. 

The thing continues to rot after its creation and so 

eventually decays into incapacity.

spell casting as invoking Mythos gods and the requirement 
of  the  caster  to  breathe  part  of  his  or  her  own  "life  force" 
into  the  corpse.  The  casting  time  is  not  important  and  is 
reduced to one day, but it could just as well remain at one 
week. This zombie will follow simple commands and may 
even slowly learn more over time. The zombie’s life is linked 
to the caster and it will become inactive and rot away should 
its master die.  

Let’s  call  this  spell  The  Graveyard  Kiss  to  evoke  what 

might be its kinder, albeit misplaced, intentions.

Graveyard Kiss 
(Create Zombie Variant)

Cost: 5 POW; 1D10 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 day 
The  spell  requires  a  human  corpse  that  retains  suffi-
cient flesh to allow mobility after activation. The caster 
puts an ounce of his or her own blood in the mouth 
of  the  corpse,  then  kisses  the  lips  of  the  corpse  and 
“breathes part of the self” into the body. Five points of 
POW are lost, a gift to the corpse. 

If the spell succeeds, the caster may give the zombie 
simple commands that it will carry out. Over time the 
zombie may learn to accept more complex commands. 
Should the caster die, the zombie becomes inactive and 
rots away. Part of the invocation refers collectively to the 
Mythos Gods—though no specific names are used. 

Deeper Version
It is rumored that some may be able to create and con-
trol unlimited undead servants, with some suggesting 
that a sorcerer’s POW sets the limit for the number of 
zombies that can be controlled. 

Divide the caster’s POW by five; the result is the 
maximum  number  of  zombies  that  may  be  actively 
controlled at any given time.

Alternative  names:  The  Deathless  Servant,  Love’s 
Lost Embrace Returned

244 

Call of CthulhuA Macabre Version of the Create Zombie Spell:

If you want an altogether more evil version of the spell—
one  that  involves  the  capture  and  murder  of  an  innocent 
person, perhaps a friend of an investigator or even an actual 
investigator—then something must be altered to allow the 
spell to begin with a living target.

First  the  target  would  have  to  be  captured,  and  one 
obvious way to capture and subdue a target is with poison. 
This spell is intended to have an evil feel, so the target is then 
buried alive for a few days. Later the victim is converted to 
a zombie to serve its master for so long as the caster lives or 
wishes.  This  is  an  evil  spell  involving  murder  and  torture, 
thus the Sanity cost is increased to 10 points. The fact that 
this spell does not so much animate a corpse as corrupt a 

Create Zombi 
(Create Zombie Variant)

Cost: 10 magic points; 10 Sanity points
Casting time: variable (days)
The