 crane or road digger.
i  Hard  difficulty:  manipulate  the  machinery  to 
achieve  some  delicate  or  specific  task,  such  as  un-
earthing  delicate  dinosaur  eggs  with  a  mechanical 
digger without breaking them.

Pushing  examples:  going  step-by-step  with  the  operating 
manual; taking time to practice; seeking a teacher.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: you’re driv-
ing the bulldozer, but get overconfident, and lose control so 
it veers into a brick wall (the wall comes down on you, or 
perhaps worse).

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she may 
believe they are tasked with unearthing or building a temple 
to the old ones. 

Persuade (10%)
Use  Persuade  to  convince  a  target  about  a  particular  idea, 
concept, or belief through reasoned argument, debate and 
discussion. Persuade may be employed without reference to 
truth. The successful application of Persuade takes time: at 
least half an hour. If you want to persuade someone quickly, 
you should use Fast Talk.

Depending  on  the  goal  expressed  by  the  player,  if  the 
investigator takes sufficient time, the effect may linger indef-

71 

chapter 4: skillsPushing  examples:  pulling  the  aircraft  up  and  making  a 
second and final attempt at landing; pushing the vehicle to 
its limit; making a risky maneuver to lose a pursuer.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the results 
of  a  failed  roll  should  fit  the  situation.  It  may  be  that  the 
craft is somehow damaged, and repairs will have to be made 
before  it  can  be  used  again  (which  may  prove  impossible 
in  remote  locations);  passengers  are  injured  during  the 
maneuver or accident; you emergency-landed the plane in 
the jungle, and awake tied to large stones that circle a huge, 
bubbling  cooking  pot.  Reserve  burning  wrecks  for  excep-
tional  circumstances,  such  as  when  the  pilot  is  insane,  or 
when taking a crazy risk at high speed.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she will be-
lieve that they are capable of death-defying stunts. They are not.

Piloting specializations:

Pilot (Aircraft): understands and is increasingly competent 
with  a  general  class  of  aircraft  named  below.  Upon  any 
landing,  even  under  the  best  conditions,  a  Pilot  roll  must 
be made. The consequence of failure is situation-dependent. 
Failing a (Pushed) skill roll to land in a flat, grassy field on 
a calm summer’s day may simply indicate a bumpy landing, 
perhaps  deterring  more  delicate  passengers  from  flying 
again. At the other extreme, failing a (Pushed) skill roll to 
land on icy tundra during a storm may well result in the de-
struction of the airplane and death or injury of all involved. 
Failure  commonly  represents  damage  to  the  craft,  which 
must be repaired before the next take-off. A result of 100 is 
a memorable disaster.

Each class of aircraft counts as a different skill and should 
be listed independently, or as the Keeper sees fit. 1920s: Pilot 
Balloon/Dirigible/Civil  Prop  only.  Present  day:  Pilot  Civil 
Prop,  Pilot  Civil  Jet,  Pilot  Airliner,  Pilot  Jet  Fighter,  Pilot 
Helicopter. Piloting skill may be transferred to an alternative 
form of aircraft, but the level of difficulty may be increased.

Pilot (Boat): understands the behavior of small motor and 
sailing craft in wind, storms, and tides, and can read wave 
and wind action