 pipe of un-
known origin found among your late father’s effects, a 
curious silver ball you dug up in your garden).
8:  A sporting item (e.g. cricket bat, a signed baseball, a 

fishing rod).

9:  A  weapon  (e.g.  service  revolver,  your  old  hunting 

rifle, the hidden knife in your boot).

10: A pet (e.g. a dog, a cat, a tortoise).

44 

Call of CthulhuTraits
Roll 1D10 or pick one of the following. Take the result and 
make it specific and personal to your investigator.

1:  Generous  (e.g.  generous  tipper,  always  helps  out  a 

person in need, philanthropist).

2:  Good  with  animals  (e.g.  loves  cats,  grew  up  on  a 

farm, good with horses).

3:  Dreamer  (e.g.  given  to  flights  of  fancy,  visionary, 

highly creative).

4:  Hedonist (e.g. life and soul of the party, entertaining 

drunk, "live fast and die young").

5:  Gambler and a risk-taker (e.g. poker-faced, try any-

thing once, lives on the edge).

Additional Details
Fill in the following details on the investigator sheet.

Birthplace 

Most of Lovecraft’s stories take place in New England. You can 
choose to start there if you wish; however your investigator 
could originate from anywhere in the world. No game penalty 
or advantage exists for one country or culture over another. 
The choice can lead to other deductions: for instance, while 
an investigator born in the United States of America or Can-
ada has a good chance of English as his or her own language, 
an investigator born in Quebec might learn French at infancy, 
while one born in Arizona might have Spanish or Navajo, and 
one born in San Francisco might speak Cantonese.

6:  Good cook (e.g. bakes wonderful cakes, can make a 

Gender of the Investigator 

meal from almost nothing, refined palate).

7:  Ladies’ man/seductress (e.g. suave, charming voice, 

enchanting eyes).

8:  Loyal (e.g. stands by his or her friends, never breaks 

a promise, would die for his or her beliefs).

9:  A good reputation (e.g. the best after-dinner speaker 
in the country, the most pious of men, fearless in the 
face of danger).

10: Ambitious  (e.g.  to  achieve  a  goal,  to  become  the 

boss, to have it all). 

Key Background Connection 
Consider your investigator’s background, and pick the one 
entry that you feel is most important. This is their key con-
nection: the one thing above all else that gives meaning to 
their life. Mark it with star or underline it on the investigator 
sheet. This connection can aid your investigator in regaining 
Sanity points (see Chapter 8: Sanity). 

Everything in the story is open to the Keeper to do with 
as  he  or  she  desires,  except  for  the  investigator’s  key  con-
nection. The key connection cannot be destroyed, killed or 
taken away by the Keeper without first allowing the player 
the opportunity to roll dice to, in some way, save that key 
connection.

The  idea  of  the  players  being  able  to  nominate  some-
thing  in  the  game  world  that  has  immunity  may  sound 
daunting  (to  the  Keeper)  at  first.  However,  this  immunity 
is quite limited; the key connection can be killed, removed 
or  destroyed  by  the  Keeper,  but  the  investigator  to  whom 
they are connected must be involved, or given the option to 
become  involved.  In  game  play  this  means  that  the  player 
must be presented with the opportunity to make at least one 
dice roll to save the connection