to get out of that hotel alive as quickly as I could, 
and through some channel other than the front 
stairs and lobby.

—H.P. Lovecraft, "The Shadow Over Innsmouth"

ction  scenes  in  films  and  books  tend  to  fall 
into  one  of  two  categories:  fights  or  chases. 
The extended chase in The Shadow over Inns-
mouth  (quoted  on  the  previous  page)  is  one 
of  the  most  dynamic  and  memorable  action 
sequences in Lovecraft’s work. A chase scene should provide 
just as much drama and excitement as combat. 

A chase is more than a simple test of speed; a good chase 
is made up of a string of dramatic locations that challenge 
the  characters  as  they  race  through  them.  The  characters 
may  begin  in  a  crowded  marketplace  before  moving  to 
narrow alleys, then climbing a fire escape, breaking through 
a window, pursuing each other through an apartment as a 
family eat lunch, and so on.

The chase is played out in rounds (much like combat). 
As each character’s turn begins, the Keeper should describe 
the situation, then ask what actions the investigator is taking 
that  round.  Only  then  should  the  Keeper  determine  what 
dice  rolls  are  required,  the  outcome  of  which  should  be 
incorporated into the story, perhaps changing the situation 
faced by the next player. 

These rules assume the fleeing character has an escape 
route. If a character is trapped then they must escape before 
a chase can ensue.

While some measure of gritty realism can be desirable, 
avoid becoming overly preoccupied with it. Always bear in 
mind that the aim is to create dramatic fiction, not to mirror 
real-world physics.

First, these rules will address a simple one-on-one chase. 
Later in this chapter, chases with multiple participants will 
be explored. These rules are intended for characters involved 
in any type of chase, whether running, swimming or flying, 
and for vehicles of any kind. 

The rules for chases are presented in five parts. 

Part 1: Establishing the chase: A method for gauging wheth-
er  or  not  a  chase  needs  to  be  played  out  in  full.  In  cases 
where the fleeing character is determined to be fast enough 
to get away, the chase will go no further than Part 1.

Part 2: Cut to the chase: Provides the Keeper with a system 
for  laying  out  a  chase,  positioning  all  of  the  participants, 
and deciding the order of play and number of actions each 
participant can make.

Part  3:  Movement:  This  part  covers  the  essential  rules  for 
movement  and  for  dealing  with  the  various  hazards  and 
barriers that might be encountered.

Part 4: Conflict: Provides rules for resolving what happens 
when  characters  and  vehicles  try  to  grab,  strike  or  collide 
with each other. 

Part 5: Supplementary chase rules: Part 5 contains a selec-
tion of additional rules that complement parts 1 to 4. 

Part 1: Establishing the 
Chase
If the fleeing character is significantly faster than his or her 
opponent,  escape  is  likely,  leaving  the  pursuer  far  behind; 
the chase will be over almost as soon as it has begun. A single 
skill roll for each character is used to establish the chase, the 
result yielding one of two options:

G  The  fleeing  character  is  faster  than  the  pursuer,  in 
which  case  it  is  assumed  that  the  pursuer  quickly 
falls  behind  and  the  chase  is  not  played  out.  The 
Keeper simply describes how the pursuer loses their 
quarry in a way that fits the situation.

G  The pursuer is