 conversation and get the facts mixed up; you are caught 
trying to eavesdrop, and find yourself in a very embarrassing 
predicament.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she be-
comes overly sensitive to all sounds and is unable to operate 
without earplugs or similar.

Locksmith (01%) 
A  locksmith  can  open  car  doors,  hot-wire  autos,  jimmy 
library  windows,  figure  out  Chinese  puzzle  boxes,  and 
penetrate  ordinary  commercial  alarm  systems.  The  user 
may repair locks, make keys, or open locks with the aid of 

Library Use will turn up shocking clues.

skeleton keys, picks and other tools. Especially difficult locks 
may be of a higher difficulty level. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: opening or repairing a standard 

lock.

i  Hard difficulty: opening a high-security lock.

Pushing examples: completely dismantling the lock; taking 
longer; using force to pry the mechanism.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the lock is 
damaged beyond repair (perhaps your lock pick has snapped 
off inside the lock); you break the puzzle box (perhaps only 
smashing it will open it now); you trip an alarm, or make 
enough noise for someone or something to come looking…
If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
gives  up  on  the  lock  in  question  and  realizes  the  higher 
purpose of unlocking their own mind; a veil has been lifted 
from their eyes, and they see the world in a new way that 
makes complete sense to them, but no sense  to anyone  of 
sound mind.

Lore (01%) (Specializations)  
[Uncommon]
This  skill  represents  a  character’s  expert  understanding  of 
a  subject  that  falls  outside  the  normal  bounds  of  human 
knowledge.  Specializations  of  Lore  should  be  specific  and 
unusual, such as:

i  Dream Lore
i  Necronomicon Lore (e.g. history of)

68 

Call of Cthulhui  UFO Lore
i  Vampire Lore
i  Werewolf Lore
i  Yaddithian Lore
Where the Keeper wishes to test an investigator’s knowl-
edge  of  something  that  falls  within  the  bounds  of  one  of 
these  fields  of  Lore,  but  the  investigator  lacks  the  relevant 
Lore  specialization,  the  Keeper  may  for  allow  for  another 
(more  general)  skill  to  be  used  but  require  a  higher  level 
of success. For example, if the Keeper were testing a mod-
ern-day investigator’s knowledge of alien abductions in the 
1980s, he or she could ask for either a Regular success using 
UFO Lore or a Hard success using History.

Lore skills are also used as a shorthand method of com-
municating the knowledge of a non-player character to the 
Keeper. In the main, knowledge is represented by the EDU 
characteristic and specific skills, such as History or Cthul-
hu Mythos. The Keeper should decide when the Lore skill 
should be incorporated into the game—usually only when 
a  particular  area  of  specialist  knowledge  is  central  to  the 
campaign being played. 

Mechanical Repair (10%)
This allows the investigator to repair a broken machine or 
to create a new one. Basic carpentry and plumbing projects 
can be performed, as well as constructing items (such as a 
pulley system) and repairing items (such as a steam pump). 
Special  tools  or  parts  may  be  required.  This  skill  can  be 
used to open common household locks, but nothing more 
advanced—see the Locksmith skill for more complex locks. 
Mechanical Repair is a companion skill to Electrical Repair, 
and both may be necessary to fix complex devices