 border and wait out the war.

Turner and his gang fled into what would later become 
the  Green  Mountain  National  Forest,  where  they  could 
hide from the authorities on their trek north. Here, north 
of the small village of Somerset, Vermont, they encountered 
something far more terrible than the war they were escaping 
from. In the middle of the virgin wilderness, Turner and his 
men  set  up  camp  on  the  shores  of  a  lake  less  than  a  mile 
from where one of the shards of the crystal prison had come 
to  rest.  That  night,  they  heard  the  Dream  Call  of  Gla'aki. 
With the promise of eternal life they walked into the black 
waters with open arms. Here, Gla'aki took Turner and his 
men and raised them up as its undying servants. 

Over  the  last  60  years,  Turner  and  the  other  servants 

346 

Call of Cthulhuhave been slowly digging through the woods looking for the 
buried crystal. Now they have found it, buried deep in the 
ground. Very  soon  they  will  have  accomplished  their  task 
and Gla'aki will take one step closer to freedom. 

Recent Events
Summer, 1925: diggers and surveyors working on the foun-
dations for the new Somerset reservoir (named after the old 
village that is now a small logging community) found traces 
of odd mineral deposits—the remains of the meteor that fell 
to Earth millennia ago, comprised of an unknown mineral.
The deposits have defied analysis and have caused Lucas 
Strong, the new head of the Vermont Water Board and former 
owner of a successful local logging firm, a major headache. 
While the initial research says that these materials are prob-
ably  not  toxic,  Strong  is  not  prepared  to  take  the  risk—he 
would not survive the scandal if word got out that he knew 
the  site  contained  potentially  harmful  chemicals  that  could 
contaminate the water supply. With the vast majority of the 
Water Board’s budget tied up in the land, moving the reser-
voir to another location is simply not an option.

Facing potential ruin, Strong has decided to take steps 
to  ensure  he  has  done  everything  possible  to  remove  the 
threat of potential toxicity by sending a team of surveyors 
and geologists into the forest to track down other deposits 
remaining  in  the  area  of  the  drainage  basin  and  remove 
them. Having been seen to have done everything humanly 
possible, Strong believes he can face down any potential for 
scandal. However, there’s just one small snag…

Word of mouth began to circulate that Strong had sent a 
surveying team out into the forest to look for precious met-
als. While  technically  accurate,  when  those  words  reached 
the  ears  of  a  small  time  crook  named  Sidney  Harris,  he 
translated "precious metals" into "gold," and Strong became 
a target for extortion. 

Harris and his gang kidnapped Strong’s sixteen-year-old 
daughter, Jane, taking her deep into the forest to hold her 
captive in an old hunting lodge. All was going to plan until 
Harris and his men began to experience the dreams of Gla'aki 
calling to them to join with it in the lake. The dreams set the 
men  on  edge,  making  them  anxious  and  paranoid.  When 
the time came for the hand-over of the ransom money, the 
gang panicked and a gunfight with the authorities ensued. 
After gunning down several cops, Harris (who managed to 
grab the bag containing the ransom money) and one other 
wounded survivor (Eugene Clayton) fled back into the for-
est. Harris’ plan is to head back to the cabin where Jane is 
being  held.  From  there  maybe  he  can  make  a  run  for  the 
Canadian border with Dobbs