 the barkeep. Ber-
nie soon becomes a character 
in his own right and his story 
becomes entwined with that 
of  the  investigators.  Plac-
ing  non-player  character 
contacts at risk will provide 
further  motivation  for  the 
players.  When  the  players 
hear  that  cultists  picked 
Bernie  the  barkeep  as  a 
sacrifice  to  their  dark  god, 
it’s going to be more mean-
ingful than if it were just an 
unknown victim.

Remember to 
present non-
player characters 
in a believable 
way. The use 
of accents and 
mannerisms can 
quickly establish 
a character’s 
personality in 
the minds of the 
players. 

Roleplaying Hooks
Everybody  wants  something.  Have  non-player  characters 
approach  the  investigators  with  requests,  demands,  and 
problems.  Consider  how  events  in  the  story  might  create 
problems  for  non-player  characters.  These  non-player 
characters will want help with their problems and, wherever 
possible,  you  should  direct  their  requests  for  help  to  the 
investigators.  If  a  non-player  character  has  something  the 
players  want,  the  non-player  character  will  probably  want 
something in return. 

As  an  aid  to  presenting  non-player  characters  in  play, 
list  two  or  three  of  these  “roleplaying  hooks”  alongside 
each of the key non-player characters in your scenario. The 
hooks  are  more  than  personality  traits  or  clues;  they  are 
plot drivers that allow the non-player character to hook an 
investigator like a fish on a line. Your players will soon be 
pulled in multiple directions by various hooks and if most 
of these hooks are rooted in your core plot then your story 
will become more layered and engaging. 

The Keeper has noted the following roleplaying hooks 
for Parkin Withers (NPC):

G  Parkin’s  business  (and  possibly  life)  is  under 
threat from the mob—he desperately needs help.
G  Parkin knows that Ephraim Smith is a cultist and 
will seek some form of reward or recompense from 
the investigators in return for this information.

Harvey  Walters  regularly  stops  to  chat  over  a 
drink  with  Parkin  Withers.  Harvey  wants  to  know 
how Parkin got his black eye, and Parkin explains how 
a  man  is  extorting  money  from  him.  Parkin  wants 
Harvey’s  help.  The  Keeper  knows  that  this  mystery 
man is tied in with  the plot, as part of a local gang 
associated  with  a  cult.  If  Harvey  takes  the  bait  and 
offers to help Parkin, the plot is progressed.

Parkin  also  possesses  information  pertaining  to 
Harvey’s investigation, but in return he wants a pack-
age delivered. “It’s nothing suspect, but whatever you 
do, don’t open it…”

Presenting the Authorities
The  Keeper  should  define  the  function  and  purpose  of 
a  given  authority  in  the  context  of  the  scenario.  A  sheriff 
or a judge, for instance, can be a great help or a great ob-
struction to an investigation; perhaps by controlling access 
to evidence, the non-player character may willfully pursue 
personal theories concerning a crime rather than cheerfully 
adopting the ideas of the investigators, and may even blindly 
order the arrest of the investigators as suspects, or hold them 
as material witnesses.

Uniformly portraying authorities as sleazy opportunists, 
corrupt fools, and rigid bumpkins enforces a cliché that can 
corrode the heart of the game. Call of Cthulhu assumes that 

190 

Call of Cthulhuhumanity 