  into  their  plots.  Both  approaches  can  be  found 
in published scenarios. Ultimately how you play it is up to 
you and your group, but if you are going to use themes of 
discrimination in the game, it is strongly recommended that 
you discuss the issue early on.

185 

chapter 10: playing the gameInvestigators can come from all manners of backgrounds

Creating Investigators 
Creating an investigator is straightforward—just follow the 
rules in Chapter 3: Creating Investigators. There is plenty 
of supplementary information on period settings and pro-
fessions that can help the players expand and flesh out their 
investigators. A good place for more information is in the 
numerous Call of Cthulhu source books published by Chao-
sium, especially the Investigator Handbook, as this includes a 
lot of extra information and options for players.

Advising the Players
Once you are familiar with your scenario it is time to brief 
the players so that they can create suitable investigators. For 
a  standard  scenario  the  players  can  be  presented  with  an 
initial premise:

G  The date and location of the scenario.
G  A basic description of how the scenario begins.
G  Suggested  professions  suitable  to  the  scenario’s 

premise.

G  Suggestions  for  how  the  investigators  know  each 

other.

The more information the players have to work with, the 
better they can create investigators who will be tied into the 
plot and possess motivation to follow the story path. 

There  may  be  quite  a  lot  you  can  say  about  the  initial 

premise without giving away too much of what is to come. 
When  discussing  the  initial  premise,  you  might  consider 
telling the players information that would be unknown to 
their investigators at the outset of play

You’re  about  to  run  Amidst  the  Ancient  Trees,  the 
first  of  the  scenarios  at  the  back  of  this  book.  You 
deliver the premise thus: “The story is set in Vermont, 
1925. There’s been a kidnapping and a call is out for 
posses to head into the woods in search of the missing 
girl.  You’ll  probably  want  at  least  one  outdoorsman 
or hunter among the group. Most likely you’ll all be 
concerned  locals,  but  if  you  want  to  be  from  out  of 
town, you could be. How you know each other, if you 
do, is up to you.” 

Investigator Groups (I):                             
Integrated Investigators
Try to throw out as many “hooks” as possible in your initial 
premise.  One  way  to  involve  a  player  is  to  place  a  family 
member or friend in jeopardy; for example, “Your investi-
gator’s  brother  has  been  murdered.”  That’s  fine,  but  some 
players may not feel affected by the death of a fictional rela-
tive. However, if you volunteer the story-hook as a question 
to the players (“There’s been a murder—tell me who’s been 
killed"), a player may suggest the link (“Could the deceased 
be my brother?”). When the motivation is coming from the 
player,  you  can  be  sure  it  will  hold  a  lot  more  emotional 

186 

Call of CthulhuSome scenarios don’t require 
that the investigators know 
one another before the game 
starts. A game may begin with a 
disparate group of investigators 
compelled to action by some 
dramatic event. These adventures 
are often described as starting 
“in medias res”—in the middle 
of things. Think of these like 
a horror film in which random 
characters have to work          
together to survive; many zombie 
films work on such a premise. 
Some campaigns can begin this 
way too, with the investigators 
drawn together to combat 
the Mythos due to a shared            
experience that has changed 
their