 for 
the spell’s one weakness. The brain is the seat of the spell’s 
power and, as such, could not be removed. If the brain was 
destroyed, the other organs would lose their magical prop-
erties and the caster would die.

Having  one’s  own  insides  removed  costs  2D10  Sanity 
points and the permanent loss of 5 POW per organ removed. 
Attacks that impale cause only normal damage (unless the 
head  is  specifically  targeted).  Invulnerability  stems  from 
which  organ  is  removed;  for  example  if  the  lungs  are  re-
moved then the caster is unaffected by lack of oxygen (thus 
drowning and suffocation are no longer threats). Removal 
of vital organs may also render the caster immune to poison 
and so forth.

If the caster is harmed, hit points should be reduced as 
usual, leading to unconsciousness but not death. Death will 
only occur if the brain is specifically targeted and destroyed.
Alternative names: Imbue Essence, Extraction of the Will, 

The Deathless Breath.

Banishment of Yde Etad
Cost: 1D4+3 magic points per caster; 1D4 Sanity points each
Casting time: variable (minimum 1 hour)

This  spell  sends  home  most  trans-dimensional  human  or 
human-like intelligences that are under their own volition. 
It  is  not  effective  against  any  creature  commanded  by  an-
other  intelligence.  Correctly  performed,  the  banishment 
is  permanent  and  irrevocable.  Each  banishment  is  of  an 
individual target, not of a type of monsters.

At  least  three  people  must  participate  in  the  spell.  All 
participants must know the spell. More participants add to 
the effectiveness; however, the total number of participants 
must be divisible by three.

This banishment works by destroying with ritual flames 
a sigil representing the target. The target’s personal sigil is 
best, but a substitute can be prepared according to a formula 
described within the spell. For the spell to take effect an op-
posed POW roll must be made between the caster with the 
highest POW and target. One bonus die is granted for each 
additional set of three casters.

The  spell  must  be  performed  in  the  open  air  in  the 
middle of the night, ideally in a place of power associated 
with the target. This could be known haunts, its last known 
location or its point of entry into this dimension. The spell 
casters must divide their numbers: one-third remain outside 
a protective circle and the rest stand within.

Alternative  names:  Banish  Spawn  of  the  Seven  Hells, 

Cast Out Demon, Curse of Awful Fire.

Bind spells, see Summoning Spells 
(page 263)

Bless Blade
Cost: 5 POW; 1D4 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 hour

Creates a blade capable of damaging or killing entities that 
cannot  be  harmed  by  mundane  weapons.  Requires  the 
blood sacrifice of an animal of at least SIZ 50. The blade of 
the knife must be of an elemental metal such as iron or sil-
ver. The blade may be of any size; however, larger blades do 
greater damage(see Table XVII: Weapons, pages 401-405).

If  the  blade  is  broken,  melted,  or  otherwise  damaged 
it  permanently  loses  this  ability;  however,  it  will  not  be 
harmed in attacks against supernatural entities.

Alternative names: Imbue Might of the Elder Ones, Ritu-

al of the Seven Cuts, Spirit’s Bane.

Body Warping of Gorgoroth
Cost: 6+ magic points; 5 POW; 2D6 Sanity points
Casting time: 1D6+4 minutes

Allows  the  caster  to  change  his  or  her  physical  form.  The 
sorcerer