, the Keeper should grant a bonus die or a penalty 
die to that player.

Skill rolls: Set level of difficulty.

Opposed rolls: Award penalty dice or bonus dice.

  An  evil  cultist  is  attempting  to  push  a  door  open 
as Harvey pushes it closed from the other side. This 
calls for a STR or SIZ roll. The Keeper lacks statistics 
for the cultist and must set an appropriate difficulty 
level. He decides that the cultist’s STR and SIZ would 
both be between 50 and 89, requiring Harvey to make 
a roll of Hard difficulty level to push the door closed. 
The Keeper allows Harvey to choose whether to use 
his  STR  or  his  SIZ  (he  uses  his  SIZ  of  course,  it  is 
much higher). If he fails, he might be able to push the 
roll  by  throwing  himself  recklessly  against  the  door, 
but only at the risk of taking physical damage should 
he fail.

If the cultist is a key non-player character (with 
STR 80 and SIZ 65), the Keeper may feel that it would 
be more fun to have both sides make an opposed roll. 
Harvey  rolls  57  against  his  SIZ  of  80,  giving  him  a 
Regular success. The Keeper rolls 15, which is an Ex-
treme success for the cultist’s STR. Harvey is knocked 
back, with no chance of pushing the roll.

Combined Skill Rolls
Some situations allow or demand the use of more than one 
skill. Only one dice roll is made, and the result then com-
pared with each of the skills named. The Keeper will specify 
whether a success is required for both skills (i.e. the roll is a 
success when measured against each of the skills) or if only 
one of the skills need be successful.

Note  the  importance  of  using  a  single  dice  roll  in  the 
latter example. Harvey has only 10% skill in both Mechan-
ical  Repair  and  Electrical  Repair.  The  chance  of  success 
when making one dice roll and comparing it to both skills 

92 

"Sorry Harrison, I don't intend to die today."

 In a dire turn of events, two investigators, Felix and 
Harrison, have been captured by the insane cultists 
of the Scarlet Smile. The cultists decide to have some 
fun at the investigators’ expense, decreeing that both 
must undertake the Ordeal of Pain, from which only 
one  can  survive;  the  loser  will  be  sacrificed  to  the 
cultists’ foul god.

The Ordeal of Pain involves lifting up a huge rock 
and  holding  it  aloft. Whoever  holds  the  rock  up  the 
longest  will  win.  This  requires  an  opposed  Strength 
roll  from  each  of  the  investigators. The  Keeper  rules 
that Harrison must take a penalty die, as he recently 
suffered a major wound (he received an injury when 
he was captured by the cultists) and is still recovering.
Felix’s player rolls 51 against STR 65—a Regular 

success.

Harrison’s  STR  is  55.  His  player  rolls  20  and 
40  on  two  tens  dice  and  1  on  the  units  die  (see  fig 
2.),  which  can  be  combined  to  read  21  or  41.  The 
extra die was a penalty die so Harrison must take the 
higher result—a Regular success.

Both  players  have  achieved  a  Regular  success, 

and so Felix wins because he has the higher STR.

Felix is able to hold the rock above his head for 
longer  than  Harrison.  The  cultists  jeer  and  lead 
Harrison off towards their altar.

Call of Cthulhuskill (whichever is higher). Thus, if the opposing skill is 50% 
or higher