 negotiate a hazard is failed, the Keeper 
should  decide  if  damage  is  inflicted  on  the  character  or 
vehicle,  and  how  much,  using  Table  III:  Other  Forms  of 
Damage as a guide for damage to characters, or Table VI: 
Vehicular Collisions (see page 147) for damage to vehicles. 
Failing  to  negotiate  an  obstacle  or  taking  damage  is  also 
likely to slow the character or vehicle; roll 1D3 for number 
of lost movement actions. 

Notice how a hazard is written in the space between two 
dots. The dots represent the locations on either side of the 
hazard. Thus, in the example nearby, the area labeled “mud” 
is a hazard for those travelling from one location to the next. 
After negotiating a hazard a character should move onto the 
next location whether they pass or fail the skill roll.

135 

chapter 7: chasesSample Hazards for Car Chases

G  Traffic jam with room to weave between vehicles.
G  Performing a U-turn or bootlegger reverse.
G  Roadwork that causes an obstruction.
G  Road traffic accident.
G  Pedestrian crossing.
G  Busy junction.
G  Cyclists in the road.
G  Sharp bends or pot holes.
G  Animals (deer, goats, sheep) on the road.
G  Other vehicles pulling out or stopping suddenly.
G  Fallen rocks and debris on the road.
G  Narrow road between a cliff and a drop.
G  Slow-moving  delivery  vehicles  and  refuse  collec-

tion trucks.

G  Pedestrianized area.
G  Two men carrying a large sheet of glass across the 

street.

G  A marketplace or building site.
G  A large stack of cardboard boxes.
G  Overtaking a vehicle on a narrow road or in the face 

of oncoming traffic.

G  Heading off-road or through a field.
G  An oncoming vehicle (a hazard can move).

Sample Hazards for Foot Chases

G  A low fence or wall.
G  A latched window.
G  A river, lake, or muddy swamp.
G  A crowded street.
G  A narrow alley.
G  A rooftop.
G  A hole in a wall.
G  A crawlspace,  junk-filled attic, or cellar.
G  A spiral staircase.
G  Between the stacks of a library or museum.

Summary: Five Steps to 
Setting Up a Chase
To sum up, there are five steps for the Keeper to 
perform when setting up a chase:

G  Place the pursuer.
G  Place the fleeing character.
G  Position hazards and barriers.
G  Allocate  each  participant  a  number  of  move-

ment actions.
G  Determine DEX order.

Barriers
Barriers  block  progress  until  they  have  been  successfully 
negotiated or removed. A barrier might be a locked door, a 
tall fence, an abyss, etc. The distinction between a hazard and 
a barrier may sometimes be unclear. Climbing over a 4-foot 
fence  may  be  hazardous,  but  would  not  stop  a  determined 
person, whereas climbing over a 7-foot wall may well present 
a barrier. Climbing up to a second-floor window would pres-
ent a barrier (if one fails to climb, the window is out of reach), 
whereas climbing down is a hazard (one can always simply 
fall).  The  Keeper  must  decide  when  a  hazard  constitutes  a 
barrier; if it is a barrier it prevents further movement until 
the skill roll is passed or the barrier is broken through. Failing 
a skill roll to pass a barrier may cause damage and delay as a 
hazard  does,  but  the  usual  consequence  is  simply  the  delay 
and inconvenience of not moving to the next location.

Skills and Barriers

G  Jump skill to leap across a chasm or jump from one 

roof to another.

G  STR to force open a door.
G  Locksmith skill to open a locked door or window.

There