 
blunt, wedge-shaped, vaguely reptilian head surmounts this 
conical torso, and the head is almost entirely hidden behind 
swirling tresses. This hair, or beard and mane, consists of 
thickly carved and coiling ropes, like serpents or worms …
Through this repulsive Medusa-mane of ropy tendrils, two 
fierce, serpent-like eyes glare in a horrible intermingling of 
cold, inhuman mockery and what I can only  
describe as gloating menace.

—Lin Carter, Zoth-Ommog

It has a cone-shaped body with a lizard-like head. From the 
head grows a mass of thick serpent-like tentacles. From the 
base of the neck project four thick pseudopods resembling 
starfish arms, one on each side of the body. Zoth-Ommog 
is evidently buried underneath the Pacific in the corpse-city 
of R’lyeh.

Cult
Zoth-Ommog  has  no  active  cult  among  humans.  Some 
deep  ones  may  worship  this  malign  entity.  Zoth-Ommog 
can manifest itself through one of the many statues of itself 
scattered apparently randomly around the world.

SIZ 300 

Zoth-Ommog, Son of Cthulhu
STR 200 
CON 600 
POW 175  HP 90
Damage Bonus: +5D6
Build: 6
Magic Points: 35
Move: 25

DEX 60 

INT 100

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Can attack in a variety of ways using tentacles, 
feet, crushing blows, and so on. Generally it assaults any human 
on sight, attacking either with one of its gigantic pseudopods 
or a bite.

Fighting 90% (45/18), damage bonus 
Armor: 10-point thick, blubbery hide; regenerates 3 hit points per 

combat round.

Spells: All Call and Contact spells, plus any that the Keeper finds 

appropriate.

Sanity Loss: 1D6/1D20 Sanity points to see Zoth-Ommog.

Section Three:  
Traditional Horrors
One might easily imagine an alien nucleus of substance or 
energy, formless or otherwise, kept alive by imperceptible or 
immaterial subtractions from the life-force or bodily tissues 
and fluids of other more palpably living things into which it 
penetrates and with whose fabric it sometimes  
completely merges.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shunned House

Games  of  Call  of  Cthulhu  can  be  used  to  tell  any  kind  of 
horror  story—don’t  feel  restricted  to  using  authentically 
Lovecraftian adversaries. Traditional horror has often relied 
on the duality of good versus evil, a concept which loses its 
meaning in Lovecraft’s nihilistic universe. Many of the su-
pernatural beings of legend are traditionally defeated with 
the  use  of  religious  paraphernalia:  the  vampire  is  harmed 
by holy water and repelled by a crucifix; ghosts and demons 
are  subject  to  exorcism  by  Christian  priests.  Why  should 
such things work in a Lovecraftian setting? Not everything 
needs to be explained, but glaring inconsistencies should be 
addressed; if vampires are affected by a crucifix, then why 
aren’t ghouls? 

Trying  to  marry  the  traditional  horror  tropes  with  a 
Lovecraftian  universe  might  not  be  as  easy  as  it  sounds. 
It may be helpful to distinguish between games that use a 
Lovecraftian setting from generic horror games.

Consistency  is  only  required  where  two  stories  are 
linked. You may decide to have crucifixes burn the flesh of 
the undead in a 1970s vampire scenario only to have such 
things mocked and without value in a modern-day encoun-
ter with the Mythos. If the stories are not linked (i.e. use a 
different set