 behavior. Charm is opposed by the Charm or Psy-
chology skills.

Charm may be used for bargaining, to haggle the price 
of an item or service down. If successful, the seller is won 
over and they may well reduce the price a little.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
See  Charm,  Fast  Talk,  Intimidate  and  Persuade  Skills: 
Difficulty Levels, page 93. 

Pushing examples: overtly flattering the target with affec-
tion; presenting an expensive gift; building trust by impart-
ing a secret. 

Remember this is about being charming. If the investi-
gator begins to take an alternative approach the Keeper may 
ask for a different skill to be used. If threats are used, it may 
become Intimidation; or if a protracted discussion ensues, it 
may become Persuasion. Switching from one to the other to 
gain a second roll still constitutes a Pushed roll.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll:  the  target 
takes offence and will have nothing further to do with you; 
the target is associated in some way with your enemies and, 
while  they  may  play  along  with  you,  they  also  inform  on 
you; a third party intercedes to prevent you from chatting 
up their girl.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she falls 
head over heels in love with their target and will act as if the 
target had successfully used a Dominate spell (see Chapter 
12: Grimoire) upon them.

Climb (20%) 
This skill allows a character to climb trees, walls and other 
vertical  surfaces  with  or  without  ropes  and  climbing  gear. 
The skill also encompasses rappeling.

Conditions such as firmness of surface, available handholds, 

wind, visibility, rain, etc., may all affect the difficulty level. 

Failing this skill on the first roll indicates that the climb 
is  perhaps  beyond  the  investigator’s  capability.  Failing  a 
pushed roll is likely to indicate a fall with resultant damage. 
One successful Climb roll should allow the investigator to 
complete the climb in almost all cases (rather than requiring 

59 

chapter 4: skillsInterpersonal Skills:  
Disambiguation
The relative values in the Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, and Persuade 
skills serve to define a character and how they interact with people. 

It is not for the player to nominate which one of these four skills 
they are using in a given situation. Instead the player should describe 
what  their  investigator  is  doing  and  saying,  and  it  is  then  up  to  the 
Keeper to decide which of the four skills is appropriate.

T  If the investigator is threatening violence or acting aggressively,  

the skill is Intimidate.

T  If the investigator is attempting to befriend or seduce, the skill 

is Charm.

T  If the investigator is using rational arguments and debate over a 

prolonged time, the skill is Persuade.

T  If the investigator is acting quickly to deceive, con, or trick, the 

skill is Fast Talk.

When Used on Player Characters
Each player (normally) has only one investigator through which they 
act in the game; it would therefore not be fair to allow one player to 
dictate  the  actions  of  another  player’s  investigator.  However,  if  one 
player wishes to put pressure on another player’s investigator to do their 
bidding, they might use violence (combat rules) or their investigator’s 
social skills. The former could inflict damage and ultimately death; the 
latter is subtler. 

When one of these four skills is successfully used on an investigator 
(either by an NPC or another investigator), the player is not compelled 
to follow the wishes of the other party. If the player refuses to act in 
accordance with the wishes of the character who is coercing them, the 
latter can inflict one penalty die on one dice roll (of the coercer’s choice) 
made by the player of the coerced investigator