 the monster in 
combat as others chant the spell at the site. As it 
kills its second investigator, the spell takes effect 
and the creature is banished.

T  The  star  vampire  uses  its  magic  to  control  the 
local policeman, who leads the investigators into 
a trap, leading to a chaotic scene that ends with 
half of the investigators dead and the remaining 
ones fleeing madly into the night.

T  The  investigators  discover  the  stone  tablet  and 
destroy  it,  believing  it  to  be  the  source  of  the 
evil. They may have just signed their own death 
warrants!

As  you  can  see,  from  the  simple  idea  of  a  monster 
attacking  a  research  team,  you  can  begin  to  construct  a 
scenario,  adding  as  many  bells  and  whistles  as  you  like. 
As  in  The  Thing,  the  investigators  aren’t  the  ones  who 
unleash  the  monster;  instead  they  have  to  research  what 
happened to the original team and try to fix the mess they 
find themselves in.

Campaigns
If a scenario were likened to an episode of a television series, 
a campaign would be a season or perhaps an entire series. A 
published campaign is divided into chapters, each of which 
might be considered one scenario. The chapters are linked 
with  a  common  theme  or  story-arc.  Depending  on  the 
campaign, the chapters may need to be completed in a set 
order or there may be a flexibility to accommodate playing 
the chapters in different orders, depending on the actions of 
the investigators.

First, think up several scenario plots, each only two or 
three  layers  deep.  With  three  or  four  scenarios  in  mind, 

think  about  how  they  might  connect  to  a  central  horror 
or  mystery.  The  players  start  out  fooling  around  with  the 
very edges of the Mythos, where there are dozens of myths, 
legends, clues, and adventures. As they gain more knowledge 
and experience, the investigators will work their way inward, 
into stories of greater depth. After several such stories, the 
players  should  begin  to  see  the  links  between  the  various 
scenarios. At the center of the mystery lies the hideous truth 
and the climax of the campaign.

There should be hoaxes and meaningless trails sprinkled 
among the scenarios. These will keep your world from de-
generating into a mass of monsters and their kin. Gamblers, 

218 

Call of CthulhuCrimson Letters (page 364) is 
an example of a non-linear or 
“sandbox” structure scenario. 
The investigators can roam around 
the sandbox wherever they like, in 
whatever order they like—discovering 
and unlocking the plot as they go. 
In the course of the scenario, 
the onus is on the investigators 
to choose where to visit and who 
The scenario may end in a 
to talk to.
desperate battle with the source 
of the evil, with a shootout 
at Unconsidered Trifles, with a 
confrontation with Atlantic City 
gangsters or with the investigators 
locked-up in Arkham Sanitarium. 

When preparing a sandbox scenario, 
you don’t need to write lengthy 
descriptions of each locale. Just a 
few bullet-points about each will 
suffice to act as reminder. Your 
notes should include possible clues 
to be found and how they connect 
to other non-player characters or 
locations. Non-player characters 
don’t need to have all their skills 
detailed; a profession, a few bullet 
points and relationships to other 
characters should suffice. 

spies,  religious  fanatics,  drug  smugglers,  slavers,  grasping 
entrepreneurs,  venal  labor  bosses,  terrorists,  movie  stars, 
nefarious  politicians