 his busi-
ness acquaintance and pick their brains (in a non-literal way 
for the moment) about what is happening. 

Manifestations of Horror
In  the  attempt  to  copy  the  illustrated  formula  from  the 
Witch Trial Papers, the forger Cecil Hunter partly unraveled 
the binding that the witch Keziah Mason had placed upon 
an entity under her thrall, a Horror bound in blood and ink 
within angles and lines upon the page. 

Now partly free, the Horror is hammering at the walls 
of reality and will soon break through, first into our world, 

379 

chapter 15: scenariosSigns of Passage
The  following  are  a  list  of  potential 
manifestations  of  the  Horror  and  its 
growing effects. Within a half mile or so 
of its location the effect will be noticeably 
investigators 
pronounced  and  smart 
might well use this fact to narrow down 
their  suspects  and  searches.  Keepers  are 
encouraged to create their own manifes-
tations, using the following as guidance.

Anyone  who  has  touched  the  Witch 
Trial  Papers  may  encounter  any  or  all  of 
the  manifestations.  The  following  are 
listed in a suggested order of occurrence.

T  The  Oncoming  Storm:  Radios, 
batteries,  and  electrical  systems 
will  suffer  increasing  disruption, 
fuses  blow  unexpectedly  and 
cars  stall 
is 
accompanied  by  freak  weather—
windstorms  blow  up  with  oddly 
puissant  force  to  disappear  again 
in moments, while localized tem-
perature drops cause the breath to 
fog as if in sudden winter.

inexplicably.  This 

T  Witch Fire: Eerie reddish lights are 
seen in the distance and may be re-
ported at places of note such as the 
legendary  Witch  House  of  Keziah 
Mason,  the  Hobbhouse  Manse, 
Hunter’s Studio, Leiter’s cottage, or 
anywhere else deemed appropriate 
by the Keeper. Witnesses may later 
complain  of  illness,  fatigue,  and 
headaches, while the lights may be 
the  source  of  a  spate  of  false  fire 
reports to the authorities. 

T  Bumps  in  the  Night:  The  Horror 
will  cause  disturbances  near  to 
those who have touched the papers. 
A  presence  will  be  sensed  nearby; 
someone enters the room, but when you turn there 
is no one there; footsteps sound in the vacant room 
above; telephones ring, if answered only whispering 
voices can be heard.

T  Possession: Whether dead or alive, those that have 
touched  the  papers  are  open  to  possession  by  the 
Horror.  Through the possessed victim, the Horror 
will  use  its  Soul  Burn  (in  addition  to  the  victim’s 
normal attacks) to attack those nearby. If a corpse is 
possessed it acts as a Zombie (see page 335).
T  Apparition: The Horror will partly manifest, leaving a 
trail of madness and death in its wake before its final, 
full  manifestation  into  reality.  Witnessing  a  partial 
manifestation calls for a Sanity roll (1/1D4 SAN loss).

Combating the Horror
There  are  perhaps  three  principal  means  of  trying  to  put 
an  end  the  Horror  before  it  fully  manifests.  The  first  is  to 
take the original illustrated portion of the Witch Trial  Pa-
pers, as well as the half-copies, and put them well away from 
anywhere  they  can  do  direct  harm—the  efficacy  of  this  is 
up to the Keeper, as this is akin to sending a bomb away to 
explode in someone else’s yard, and the Horror’s