, revealing lines of razor-sharp teeth...”

By setting the tone and using appropriate descrip-

tion, the player’s imagination will do the rest.

Playing Alien Entities

Then, too, there was the upsetting of the larder, the disap-
pearance of certain staples, and the jarringly comical heap of 
tin cans pried open in the most unlikely ways and at the most 
unlikely places. The profusion of scattered matches, intact, 
broken, or spent, formed another minor enigma—as did the 
two or three tent cloths and fur suits which we found lying 
about with peculiar and unorthodox slashings conceivably 
due to clumsy efforts at unimaginable adaptations. 
—H.P. Lovecraft, At the Mountains of Madness

Only  the  Keeper  knows  how  the  creatures  of  the  Mythos 
should behave. Anything they do may be important. They 
are capable of influencing investigators in all sorts of ways. 
In too many games, monsters just turn up, growl or pipe in 
an eldritch tone and then attack. This presentation is limit-
ing, predictable, and unworthy of the Mythos.

Intelligent  creatures  build,  experiment,  worship,  learn, 
perform  magic,  question,  torture,  or  do  anything  else  hu-
mans might do. They do much more as well; things that are 
odd, inexplicable, or incomprehensible. 

The horror, mystery and tone of the game are best served 
if behaviors are dark and unusual. The actions of such crea-
tures are beyond the imagination and you should strive to 
portray them as sinister, threatening, and unwholesome. 

The easy identification of a monster takes away mystery 
and reveals details about the plot. Don’t let investigators get 
information for free. If they get closer to the thing, it is still 
not  a  deep  one—it  is  a  dark,  wet  shape,  half-submerged, 
draped with seaweed, stinking like long-dead fish.

When monsters die, it is up to you whether they exhibit 
symptoms  of  distress,  simply  collapse,  or  vanish.  Mythos 
creatures  that  die  often  dissolve  or  evaporate—the  nox-
ious cloud soon replaced by a damp spot and clean air, as 
happened  to  Wilbur  Whateley  in  Miskatonic  University’s 
library in The Dunwich Horror. This conveniently leaves the 
investigators short of physical evidence. 

Descriptions  need  not  be  entirely  visual  and  become 
more real if two or more senses can be employed, such as 
sight  and  smell.  Did  the  monster  leave  a  trail  of  noxious 
slime behind? Describe its texture. Does it expel disagreeable 
odors? Does it emit a strange, high-pitched wail as the slime 
dissolves? Don’t strain for effect or break off the narrative 
to  try  to  come  up  with  the  right  word,  but  keep  in  mind 
texture, smell, taste, and quality of light as possible factors. 
Smell is particularly evocative, perhaps because it cannot 
be  communicated  by  second-hand  stimuli  such  as  photo-
graphs,  radio,  or  television;  we  know  a  thing  is  physically 
present with us when we can smell it. Sometimes the mere 
proximity of a Mythos monster can make the hairs on the 
investigator’s neck stand up. 

The  evidence  that  a  creature  leaves  behind—pools, 
prints,  fragments,  flakes,  etc.—or  the  damage  it  has  done, 
provide a much more interesting way to lead to the deduc-
tion of its identity or purpose. Sets of clues that add up to a 
baffling monster can make for fascinating play.

207 

chapter 10: playing the gameSometimes, a monster looks the same whether or not it is alive. Use caution when confirming kills.

