  roll  may  also  attempt  a 
Spot Hidden roll to spot a pair of people with rifles ahead 
of them on the trail. Those who failed the Listen roll may 
attempt a Hard Spot Hidden roll (needing equal to or under 
half their skill to succeed). The pair, a man and a boy, are 
both carrying rifles and packs.

If  the  hunters  aren’t  seen  or  heard,  their  presence  will 
become known when the investigators hear gunshots ahead. 
If any of the investigators are wearing brightly colored cloth-
ing then there are no gunshots, as they are not mistaken for 
potential game, and the man and boy walk forward, making 
their presence known in a much more friendly manner.

If  the  investigators  spot  the  hunting  party  before  the 
shots are taken, contact can be made by waving or crying a 
“hello,” otherwise ask the investigators to make a group Luck 
roll (see Luck, page 90). A failed group Luck roll means that 
a random investigator has been mistaken for a wild animal 
at a distance and shot at by the hunters for 1D3 damage—
the bullet scoring a glancing hit. Such damage manifests as a 
flesh wound rather than a serious injury. Notice that there is 
no need to roll to hit—this was a random incident and the 
damage is a result of the failed Luck roll.

The  resulting  scream  and  possible  gunfire  back  will 
bring  cries  of “DON’T  SHOOT!”  from  the  hunting  party, 
who are as scared as hell and very apologetic. 

The  hunting  party  comprises  Alistair  Lawson  and  his 
14-year-old son, George, who came from Boston on a camp-
ing trip with their neighbors, Brian Hall and his 12-year-old 
son,  Arthur,  to  teach  their  boys  to  how  to  hunt.  They  are 
completely unaware of the manhunt and haven’t heard any-
thing odd in the area—besides the occasional rumbling of a 
truck up on the trail heading north towards the reservoir dig 
site. They’ve only been out three days and haven’t ventured 
far into the forest.

Brian  and  Arthur  Hall  went  deeper  into  the  forest  a 
couple of days back and haven’t been seen since. The Law-
sons have been keeping to the edge of the forest to look for 
deer, plus (Alistair says quietly) George was getting scared at 
night, so they pulled back to the wood’s edge. 

If the investigators talk to George about being scared, he 
will say that both he and his dad were having bad dreams. 
He doesn’t remember what they were about. Both son and 
father are reluctant to say more; however if pressed, Alistair 
says that he kept dreaming he was drowning.

They agree that they won’t get in the posse’s way and urge 
for them to look out for Brian and Arthur. “You can’t miss 
Brian.  He’s  got  a  big  ol’  Texan  hat  he  brought  with  him  to 
keep  out  of  the  sun.” Alistair  also  mentions  that  they  came 
across a group of artists camping out in the woods quite some 
way into the forest. “They said they were from back home as 
well, from the University of Boston. They’re working on some 
assignment.  Painting  the  wildlife  and  landscapes,  they  said. 
We  bumped  into  them  a  few  days  ago  and  they  said  if  we 
passed back that way to drop in for some coffee. Keep an eye 
out for them. I hope they don’t get caught up in all this.”

The Briefing

bloodstains where the police officers were gunned down. The 
area  is  otherwise  still  and  ominously  quiet.  From  here,  the 
investigators are directed to head northeast. 

Evidence of two men running into the forest is quickly 
discovered by