 
an astronomer, poet, philosopher, and scientist, al-Azrad was 
born around 700 A.D. in Sanaa, Yemen. Before composing his 
great work he spent years visiting the ruins of Babylon, the pits 
of Memphis, and the great southern desert of Arabia.

He died in Damascus in 738, according to his 12th-centu-
ry biographer, Ebn Khallikan, devoured in broad daylight by 
an invisible demon. Manuscripts of the Al Azif circulated se-
cretly among philosophers and scientists of the age, however 
it was not until the year 950 that the work was translated into 
Greek by the Byzantine Theodorus Philetas, who renamed it 
the Necronomicon. Numerous copies of Philetas’ manuscript 
were  made.  The  increased  circulation  of  the  blasphemous 
tome led to its eventual condemnation in 1050 by the Patri-
arch Michael of Constantinople. Many copies were confiscat-
ed and destroyed, their owners suffering harsh penalties.

In  1228,  Olaus  Wormius  effected  a  Latin  translation  of 
the Greek version, all copies of the original Arabic having by 
this time been lost. Its rapid circulation among philosophical 
circles led to its banning in 1232, both the Latin and Greek 
versions placed on the Index Expurgatorius by Pope Gregory 
IX.  Olaus  did  not  re-title  the  Greek  Necronomicon,  and  the 
work is thereafter commonly referred to by that name.

The year 1454 saw the first practical printing press using 
moveable type and, before the end of the century, a black-let-
ter  version  of  the  Latin  Necronomicon  had  been  printed  in 
Germany, probably in Mainz. The text does not identify the 
date or place of printing.

In  the  early  sixteenth  century,  probably  before  1510,  a 
version of the Greek translation was printed in Italy. Although 
again lacking any identifying marks, this version is generally 
believed  to  have  come  from  the  press  of  Aldus  Manutius, 
founder of the Aldine Press, famous for its printing of unedit-
ed Greek and Latin texts.

In 1586 an English translation of the Necronomicon was 
produced  by  Dr.  John  Dee,  mathematician,  astrologer,  and 
physician  to  Queen  Elizabeth  of  England.  Never  published, 
Dee’s translation is believed to have been made from a Greek 
edition discovered by the doctor during his travels in Eastern 
Europe. Although accurate, it is incomplete, partially expur-
gated by its translator.

A second printing of the Latin version was made in Spain 
in the early seventeenth century. As usual, the printer is un-
identified but the poorer cut of the type distinguishes it from 
the finer German work. It is in all other ways faithful to the 
earlier edition.

Other Versions 

Other versions and partial copies of the Necronomicon exist. 
The  Sussex  Manuscript,  also  known  as  the  Cultus  Malefi-
carum,  is  an  English  translation  made  by  a  Baron  Frederic 
from the Latin text, published in Sussex in 1597. The mud-
dled  and  incomplete  Al-Azif—Ye  Booke  of  ye  Arab,  written 
in provincial English, was made in the late sixteenth century 
and  circulated  in  hand-copied  manuscript.  The  116-page 
medieval Voynich Manuscript, presently in the collection of 
the University of Pennsylvania, is written in Greek and Latin 
using Arab script. 

Surviving Copies 

Condemned  and  destroyed  by  the  Church,  only  five  copies 
of  the  Necronomicon  are  known  to  exist  today,  although 
an  unknown  number  of  copies  may  still  be  held