 and warlocks.

Chaugnar Faugn
The ears were webbed and tentacled, the trunk terminated in 
a huge flaring disk at least a foot in diameter…Its forelimbs 
were bent stiffly at the elbow, and its hands—it had human 
hands—rested palms upward on its lap. Its shoulders were 
broad and square and its breasts and enormous stomach 
sloped outward, cushioning the trunk.
—Frank Belknap Long, The Horror from the Hills

Chaugnar  Faugn  squats  in  a  cave  in  mountainous  Asia, 
guarded  day  and  night  by  subhuman  thralls  only  vaguely 
manlike, who hold rites so foul that none dare describe them. 
Usually Chaugnar Faugn remains immobile on his pedestal, 
a grotesque statue. Legends say that one day the “White Aco-
lyte” will come to bear Chaugnar Faugn to a new land.

Cult
Chaugnar Faugn is primarily worshiped by the subhuman 
tcho-tcho  people  of  the  Tsang  Plateau.  In  addition  he  has 
scattered  cults  among  the  humans  of  central  Asia.  Some 
of  these  have  begun  to  spread,  such  as  The  Blood,  which 
migrated to Montreal, Canada in the 18th century.

Other Characteristics
At  night,  Chaugnar  Faugn  may  stir  and  hungrily  feed  on 
a sacrifice, or upon anyone at hand. Day or night, he may 
lurch from his pedestal to annihilate unbelievers who enter 
his precincts. The disk-like snout at the end of his trunk is 
an organ that drains blood from a victim. Laid on an open 
wound, that wound never heals.

If not hungry, he may merely maul a victim for 1D6 hit 

points damage.

He may choose a human as a companion, and thereafter 
that  mesmerized  person  loses  1D10  Sanity  points  daily 
until  mad.  At  night  Chaugnar  Faugn  lays  his  snout-disk 
on his companion, incidentally inducing the captive’s nose 
and  ears  gradually  to  grow  into  caricatures  of  Chaugnar 

313 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsFaugn’s.  Psychically  linked  to  the  companion,  Chaugnar 
Faugn controls his or her will. If no other victim is handy, 
the elephantine god suckles from the companion, who loses 
5 CON each time.

Psychic Sending: the target dreams of Chaugnar Faugn 
and  his  greatness.  If  of  a  sensitive  nature,  the  target  may 
become obsessed by these dreams.

SIZ 200 

CON 700 

CHAUGNAR FAUGN, Horror from the Hills
STR 325 
POW 175  HP 90
Damage Bonus: +6D6
Build: 7
Magic Points: 35
Move: 20

DEX 150 

INT 125

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 2
Fighting  attacks:  Chaugnar  Faugn  may  attack  a  target  in  many 
ways. He has hands and feet and a trunk with which to punch, 
push, grasp, and kick.

Bite and hold (mnvr): Once bitten the target is held and drained of 

1D6 hit points per round.

Heart Attack: To ward off this attack, targets must roll under their 
CON;  with  success,  the  target  loses  only  1D6  hit  points  and 
falls unconscious (an Extreme success negates all damage). A 
failure means the target loses 2D6+1 damage.

Mesmerize  sacrifice:  Causes  target  to  go  to  Chaugnar  Faugn  to 
await destruction;