yet definitely there.
3—4 points: disgust, or the feeling that something is 
wrong  here.  This  may  manifest  in  vomiting,  momen-
tary stupefaction, or shivering.
5—9 points: fear, panic, or disorientation—enough to 
cause a potential episode of temporary insanity. This 
represents  a  major  shock  leading  to  uncontrollable 
physical reactions (violent body ticks, extreme nausea, 
etc.)  and/or  disassociation  with  surroundings  and 
people.
10—19  points:  mind-warping  horror—hair  changes 
to white, violent physical reaction (to self and/or oth-
ers), physical and mental shutdown, sudden character 
change (temporary), raving and delusions, or propen-
sity to either violence or total fear.
20+ points: ultimate cosmic evil—beyond humanity’s 
ability  to  comprehend.  The  mind  is  broken  and  will 
take a long time to return to sanity, and even if a way 
can be found, the person will never be the same again. 
Results in certain indefinite insanity.

*50 is an average rating. The Keeper may determine that 
the standard of an institution is above or below average, and so 
raise or lower this value within the range of 5 to 95.

Commitment to an Asylum 
Investigators may want to stay at an asylum or sanitarium, 
perhaps to gather information, hide from someone, or even 
to receive treatment. They should have little trouble enter-
ing if they can pay for the care. A private institution with an 
available room will accept someone without symptoms who 
merely wishes a rest and counseling. All institutions ask for 
references, however.

A  medical  practitioner  licensed  within  the  state  can 
arrange  that  an  investigator  be  held  for  psychiatric  obser-
vation for up to 72 hours. If evidence of serious disorder is 
gathered, the patient may be placed in an asylum for a lon-
ger  period,  for  purposes  of  observation  and  evaluation  as 
spelled out by law. Then the court will discharge or commit 
for treatment depending on the asylum’s report.

Those  committed  for  treatment  are  subject  to  review, 
but they may be in an institution for many years. It requires 

"Bahaha! A three-lobed burning eye! Ahahaha!"

Institutionalization
The next best care is committal to an insane asylum. Asy-
lums may be said to have an advantage over home care in 
that they are relatively cheap, or even a free service pro-
vided by the state. These institutions are of uneven quality 
and some may be potentially harmful. Some are creative 
places of experiment and advanced therapy, while others 
merely offer rude confinement. 

Supervised activity, manual therapy, psychiatric med-
ications, and hydrotherapy are frequent, as is electrocon-
vulsive  treatment  (dependent  on  the  period  within  which 
your game is set). 

Psychoanalysis is unlikely to be available. Sometimes an 
institution may convey an uncaring sense that undermines 
the  useful  effects  of  psychiatric  medications,  leaving  the 
investigator with a sense of anger and loss, and likely to be 
distrustful of outpatient support once he or she has left the 
institution.

To determine the success of treatment within an institu-

tion, roll 1D100:

A result of 01–50* is a success: add 1D3 Sanity points for 
psychiatric medications and/or therapy. This is followed by 
a Sanity roll, if the Sanity roll is successful, the investigator 
is cured of their insanity; if the roll is unsuccessful then a 
further Sanity roll may be attempted in one month’s time.

If the result is 51–95: no progress has been made.

If the result is 96–100:  the  character  rebels  against  taking 
the  drugs  or  therapy.  1D6  Sanity  points  are  lost,  and  no 
progress can be made during the