.

The standard rules require significant lasting damage, and 
we are accustomed to seeing characters routinely knocked out 
on  TV  and  in  films.  Rather  than  suffering  a  concussion  or 
fractured skull, these fictional characters awake later, rub their 
head, and carry on as if nothing happened.

If you wish to incorporate a movie-style knock-out rule 
into  your  game  then  treat  this  as  a  maneuver  using  blunt 
attacks  (punch,  club,  rifle-butt,  etc.)  If  the  maneuver  is 
successful,  the  opponent  is  rendered  unconsciousness  and 
suffers only 1 hit point of damage. Knock-out attacks may be 
used on any opponent with a skull or similar vulnerable spot 
(humans, deep ones, ghouls, and so on, but not a shoggoth).

Harvey wishes to knock out the security guard at the 
British  Museum.  Harvey  picks  up  a  fire  extinguisher 
and  successfully  sneaks  up  and  hits  the  guard  on  the 
back  of  the  head  with  it.  Referring  to  Striking  the 
First Blow (Surprise Attacks) (see page 106) the Keeper 
decides that because the target is completely unaware of 
the attack, it will be an automatic success. The guard 
takes 1 hit point of damage and is knocked out cold. 

 If Harvey had failed his Stealth roll, he would 
have  attempted  a  fighting  maneuver  with  the  goal 
of knocking the guard out. The guard is a big fellow 
with  Build  1,  one  above  Harvey’s  Build  of  zero,  so 
Harvey  takes  one  penalty  die  on  the  maneuver. 
Harvey  rolls  a  Regular  success  and  the  guard  fails 
to dodge, so Harvey succeeds in the maneuver. The 
guard is rendered unconscious.

Spending Luck to Remain Conscious
If you are using the optional rule for spending Luck points to 
alter  rolls,  Luck  may  be  spent  to  remain  conscious  for  a  few 
extra rounds. Remaining conscious until the end of the current 
round  costs  1  point  of  Luck.  The  cost  doubles  on  successive 
rounds—2, 4, 8, and so on—and should be spent at the start of 
each round. This is a mixed blessing, as an active character may 
present a more attractive target for further damage.

Harvey takes a major wound and fails his CON roll. 
He  automatically  falls  prone,  and  should  become 
unconscious, but he spends 1 point of Luck to remain 
conscious till the end of the present round. At the start 
of  the  following  round  he  spends  2  Luck  points. At 
the start of the third round he spends 4 Luck points. 
A  total  of  7  Luck  points  have  been  spent,  at  which 
point Harvey has reached safety. At the start of the 
fourth round Harvey doesn’t spend Luck points, and 
automatically falls unconscious.

Avoiding Nothing Happening When Both 
Sides Fail Their Fighting Skill Roll
Sometimes during melee combat, both sides simultaneously 
fail their Fighting skill rolls and nothing happens. One way 
to view this is that both sides are being equally ineffective at 
inflicting harm. An alternative point of view it is that dealing 
harm is relatively easy, and that the real skill lies in protect-
ing oneself from harm during a fight. When taking the latter 
approach,  failing  a  Fighting  skill  roll  means  that  you  have 
failed to protect yourself during the combat. Narratively you 
may have missed your target and punched a wall or moved 
the  wrong  way  and  into  your  opponent’s  blow.  There  are 
many ways to get hurt during combat; your opponent’s fist 
is only one of them.

There are three solutions available