inations 
of the Mythos. If everywhere the investigators turn they find 
a Mythos tome, then the game can become predictable and 
the challenge lessened. Obtaining a Mythos book could be 
a scenario in itself, or at least a suitably dangerous sidetrack 
to a campaign, allowing the investigators to gain secrets that 
help them in their quest against the minions of the Mythos. 
This power and knowledge comes at a price. In Call of 
Cthulhu, this usually means an increasing descent into mad-
ness. While  players  will  desire  to  gain  Mythos  books,  they 
should  also  fear  them,  due  to  the  terrible  sanity  depleting 
effect they will have on their investigators. 

Investigator possession of a Mythos tome should always 
carry a consequence. This may simply be the cost in sanity, as 
described above, or some other story-related consequence. 
Try to devise corrupted investigator background entries 
that drive the story forward. Think about how the investi-
gator’s relationship with the Mythos tome could be manip-
ulated  to  compel  the  game’s  narrative,  add  further  depth 
to  the  investigator,  and  suggest  roleplaying  opportunities 
to the player concerned. While other investigators view the 

224 

Call of CthulhuMythos tome in question as a smelly, evil-looking book, the 
investigator  who  has  become  corrupted  by  it  will  see  it  in 
a  quite  different  light. An  investigator  may  feel  compelled 
to hide the book away in case it gets “hurt,” or perhaps the 
deluded investigator cannot read another book without the 
tome’s text burning through the print. 

The tome is trying to get back to what “it” considers as 
its rightful owner by sending out messages in the form 
of dark dreams in the hope that its master will find 
it. While the investigators suffer from hideous night-
mares, the book’s true owner is closing in and waiting 
for a chance to take back what was stolen. 

Possible corrupted investigator background entries:
T  The  tome  is  a  source  of  secrets  I  must  know— 

I must learn more!

T  No one is allowed to touch my book.
T  The book speaks to me and I must obey.
T  The book is evil, and so am I for reading it.
T  Wherever I put the book it kills anything near to it.
T  The  book  is  changing  me—I  hunger  for  human 

flesh!

The Mythos tome has proved to be most useful, par-
ticularly to the investigator who read it (gaining some 
points  in  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  and  a  couple  of 
spells). However, the loss of sanity caused by reading 
tome  is  manifesting  as  an  unhealthy  obsession  with 
the  book.  The  Keeper  decides  to  give  the  investigator 
a  new “corrupted”  entry  in  their  background  (under 
Treasured Possessions): “Will not part with the Book 
of Iod, takes it wherever he goes.” 

Mythos books may also provide the inspiration for in-
vestigator delusions (see Insanity side-effects 2: Delusions 
and Reality Checks, page 162). Perhaps the book somehow 
influences the investigator or the investigator sees the book 
everywhere—even  though  it  was  apparently  destroyed. 
Delusions centered on a Mythos tome can have all manner 
of effects upon the investigators, whether to throw them off-
track or guide them through insane insight.

A Note About the Entries
Information about the tomes described may be known by 
erudite  bibliophiles,  historians,  and  by  a  few  in  the  rare 
book  trade.  While  it  is  unlikely  that  such  books  will  be 
found  on  the  shelves  of  the  common  public 