Fumble: A 1D100 result of 96–100 (if the 
number  required  to  pass  a  roll  is  below 
50),  or  100  (if  the  number  required  to 
pass a roll is 50 or above) is an automatic 
failure;  usually  the  most  catastrophic 
result possible (see page 89).

Goal:  What  the  player  aims  to  achieve 
with a successful skill roll (see pages  82 
and 194).

Half: One half of the skill or character-
istic on 1D100. Used for Hard difficulty 
level.

Handout: Documents or otherwise that 
the Keeper physically hands to the play-
ers. Usually some form of clue.

Hand-to-Hand:  A  fighting  mode  or 
a  weapon  attack  powered  by  muscle, 
such  as  a  punch  or  sword  swing  (see 
page 103).

Extreme Success: An Extreme success 
is a result equal to or below one-fifth of 
the skill or characteristic value (see page 
82). See Difficulty Level.

Hard  Success:  A  Hard  success  is  a 
result equal to or below one-half of the 
skill  or  characteristic  value  (see  page 
82). See Difficulty Level.

Healing: If an injured character has not 
sustained a major wound, the character 
recovers 1 hit point per day; otherwise a 
roll must be made—see Major Wound. 
First  Aid  and  Medicine  can  help  with 
healing.

Hit  Points  (HP):  The  total  of  a  char-
acter’s  CON  and  SIZ  characteristics 
divided  by  ten  (rounded  down).  Hit 
points are checked off to indicate injury 
(see page 65).

Hit  Point  Total:  The  total  number  of 
hit  points  a  character  has  when  in  full 
health.

Human  Limits:  A  player  may  not  roll 
to  affect  an  opponent  if  the  opposing 
characteristic exceeds that of the inves-
tigator by 100 or more (see page 88).

Idea  Roll:  Should  players  find  them-
selves at a loss for how to proceed, they 
may  make  an  Idea  roll  and  the  Keeper 
will  put  them  back  on  track  (see  page 
199).

Impale:  Greater  damage  is  inflicted  if 
the successful attacker gains an Extreme 
level  of  success  in  their  attack—the 
penetrating  weapon  or  bullet  chanced 
to strike a vital area (see page 103).

Insanity,  Indefinite:  Occurs  when  an 
investigator  loses  one-fifth  or  more  of 
current  Sanity  points  in  one  game  day 
and lasts until the character is cured or 
recovers (see page 156).

Insanity, Permanent: If current Sanity 
points  reach  zero,  the  investigator  is 
completely insane (perhaps permanent-
ly  institutionalized)  and  is  removed 
from play (see page 156).

Insanity, Temporary: When losing 5 or 
more  Sanity  points  because  of  a  single 
Sanity roll, the investigator has suffered 
emotional trauma. With a successful Idea 
roll,  the  investigator  fully  comprehends 
what has been seen and goes insane for 
1D10 hours (see page 155).

Fifth:  One-fifth  of  a  character’s  skill 
or  characteristic  on  1D100.  Used  for 
Extreme difficulty level.

Hazard:  A  location  in  a  chase  that  is 
likely to cause damage or delay, requir-
ing a skill roll.

INT:  Intelligence,  a  Characteristic.  See 
Characteristic,  also  Intelligence  roll 
(see page 31).

