ing what the player has said...

“Great, but when you get out of your car and look 
around there’s no sign of a body; the thing you hit with 
your car is nowhere to be seen.”

Alternatively,  the  Keeper  (referring  to  Other 
Forms of Damage on page 123) could ask the player 
to roll dice to see exactly how much damage the car 
did to the monster. Determining that the monster is 
definitely not dead yet, the Keeper amends the latter 
part of what the player said...

“As you reach for your pistol, you see the shambling 
thing  emerge  from  the  foliage.  It  looks  undamaged 
and very, very angry.”

Failure
The player stated a goal and has failed to achieve it, but exactly 
how  the  player’s  investigator  has  failed  is  entirely  up  to  the 
Keeper (though of course the players may throw in suggestions). 
Initial failure at a skill roll should not usually inflict damage 
or Sanity loss, but this depends on the circumstances. A failed 
roll could represent failure to act rather than a failed attempt. 
Worse things may happen if the player chooses to push the roll 
and fails a second time (see Pushing the Roll). Save "what’s the 
worst that could happen?" style consequences for pushed rolls.

Harvey  fails  his  Climb  skill  roll  as  he  attempts  to 
descend  from  an  upper  floor  window  to  the  street 
below. The Keeper describes the lack of handholds and 
that  the  nearby  drainpipe  feels  loose.  Harvey’s  goal 
was to get safely to the ground, and this has not been 
achieved—Harvey  is  still  stuck  where  he  was  before 
the  dice  roll.  Note  how  the  Keeper  did  not  take  the 
situation  to  its  extreme,  that  of  Harvey  falling  and 
suffering harm, as it made sense that Harvey would 
hesitate when he realized the danger.

Harvey speeds towards the monster.

Pushing the Roll

...the essence of pure nightmare was upon me. Sanity depart-
ed—and, ignoring everything except the animal impulse of 
flight, I merely struggled and plunged upward over the incline’s 
debris as if no gulf had existed. Then I saw the chasm’s edge, 
leaped frenziedly with every ounce of strength I possessed, and 
was instantly engulfed in a pandaemoniae vortex of loathsome 
sound and utter, materially tangible blackness.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shadow Out Of Time

Pushing  a  skill  roll  provides  the  player  with  a  second  and 
final attempt to achieve a goal. A pushed roll is only allowed 
if  it  can  be  justified,  and  it  is  up  to  the  player  to  do  this. 
Whenever a player asks, “Can I push the roll?” the Keeper 
should always ask, “What action are you taking to push the 
situation?” It is not for the Keeper to simply say yes or no; it 
is for the player to describe the extra effort or time taken to 
justify the pushed roll. If the player is stuck, other players or 
the Keeper might offer suggestions. 

By making a pushed roll, the player is upping the ante 
and giving the Keeper permission to bring dire consequenc-
es  should  the  roll  be  failed  a  second  time.  Pushing  a  roll 
means pushing the situation to the limit: 

T  If  you  are  breaking  down  a  door,  it  may  mean 
throwing yourself at it with no heed for your own 
safety.

T  If you are persuading a police officer, it may mean 

risking arrest.

84 

Call of CthulhuT  If  you  are  searching  a  room,  it  may  mean  turning 
it  over  and  risking  breaking  things, 