, about a hundred million years ago. They 
gradually reduced their bases to the tops of certain moun-
tains, where they maintain mining colonies and such.

Dozens of other races also participated in this antedi-
luvian parade, such as the serpent people who built cities 
and a civilization in the Permian, before the dinosaurs had 
evolved, and a winged race that succeeded the Great Race 
of Yith.  Even  species  from  Earth’s  future  are  mentioned, 
such as the beetle-like organisms that one day will succeed 
man, and the intelligent arachnids that are prophesied to 
be the last intelligent life on Earth, billions of years hence. 
At  present,  humans  share  the  planet  with  deep  ones  and 
ghouls (which seem related to humanity in some fashion), 
and  with  a  handful  of  mi-go.  Other  species  occasionally 
visit Earth, or are sleeping, or are dormant.

Great Cthulhu will rise when the Stars Are Right!

27 

chapter 2: h.p. Lovecraft and the cthulhu mythosAbout This Chapter

n  Call  of  Cthulhu,  each  player  takes  the  role 
of an investigator, someone whose mission is 
to  unearth  hidden  secrets,  discover  forgotten 
places and, armed with knowledge which man 
was  not  meant  to  know,  stand  against  the 

bloodcurdling horrors of the Cthulhu Mythos. 

Working  as  a  team,  investigators  can  come  from  dis-
parate  backgrounds  and  be  of  varied  occupations—each 
bringing certain expertise to the group. Together, joined in 
comradeship and common purpose, you will stand steadfast 
against the coming darkness.

This chapter provides the rules for creating investigator 
player characters. At the end of this chapter you’ll also find 
some alternative methods for creating investigators, as well 
as  a  two-page  spread  that  provides  a  handy  summary  for 
quick reference.

Creating your own investigator 
from scratch is great fun. 
The rules detail rolling your 
investigator’s statistics, 
choosing an occupation and 
skills and developing a personal 
history. When beginning a game 
of Call of Cthulhu, it is 
recommended that all the players 
‘roll-up’ their investigators 
together in the company of the 
person who will be taking on 
the role of Keeper—this ensures 
that everyone helps to ‘form’ 
the group, with each investigator 
taking an agreed role, ensuring 
that a balance of skills and 
occupations is found.

Creating Your  
Investigator
There is more than one approach to creating an investigator. 
Some  people  prefer  to  have  an  idea  about  the  type  of  in-
vestigator they wish to create before rolling any dice, while 
others prefer to let the dice rolls guide their choices. What 
follows are the standard rules for creating investigators, with 
further options at the end of this chapter. More guidance is 
provided in Chapter 10: Playing the Game.

The Steps
Here are the five steps to creating an investigator:

G  Step One: Generate Characteristics
G  Step Two: Determine Occupation
G  Step Three: Decide Skills and allocate Skill Points
G  Step Four: Create a backstory
G  Step Five: Equip investigator 

Step 1: Generate                   
Characteristics
A  characteristic  is  one  of  eight  numbers  that  create  the 
foundations for an investigator. In the game, each charac-
teristic represents an aspect of an investigator—intelligence, 
dexterity, and so on. These identified quantities determine 
the relative capability of investigators and suggest ways for 
them to act and react during play.

Characteristic values are generated randomly by rolling 
two or more six-sided dice. Each rolled result is then multi-
plied by 5 to generate a percentage number that may initially 
range between 15% and 90%. 

Rolling Characteristics
Initially write your results on a piece of scrap paper before 
writing  them  onto  the