 break-
ing bones. All you need is $1000 and you’re in the clear…

Keeper  note:  Mr.  Strong,  funding  the  posse  with  his 
own money, is offering $25 per day for everyone involved. 
It won’t take many days to find Harris, so the player can try 
to barter for more pay or to get another investigator’s share. 
There’s  also  the  option  of  the  ransom  that  Harris  ran  off 
with.  Strong  wants  it  back,  but  the  desperate  investigator 
could always try to snatch it.

Two

John, your brother, used to work for Lucas Strong and his 
water company. He used to tell you about how much of a 
miser Strong was. The man wouldn’t give you a dime if your 
life depended on it. Your brother got fired just because he 
wanted to save a few bucks. He did nothing wrong and it’s 
just damned unfair. Now that something’s happened to his 
daughter,  he’s  throwing  cash  around  that  could  have  kept 
your brother in his job. It’s time to do what’s right… 

Keeper note: This is potentially one of the darker moti-
vations and is open for the player to interpret. Some possible 
interpretations: try to extort more cash from Strong; try to 
get the brother his job back; the player might even kidnap 
Jane and use her as leverage over Strong, etc. This could lead 
to some interesting intra-party conflicts if the player pushes 
in the wrong direction at the wrong time.

Three

You used to work for Lucas Strong until you messed up. Sure 
it was your mistake, but people make mistakes. One misun-
derstanding with a client and you were fired. Since then you 
have survived on makeshift work, although money is tight. 

Now Strong really needs someone to get his daughter back. 
You’re  the  right  person  for  the  job.  All  you  need  to  do  is 
show him what you can do and he’ll take you back and your 
worries will be over. 

Keeper  note:  In  this  instance,  the  investigator  could 
try to take charge of the posse, becoming the team leader. 
Rather than a monetary reward, the investigator might seek 
to be reinstated in his or her job. This might even involve 
attempts to influence any testimony Jane gives if she is res-
cued. 

Four

You and Sidney Harris and his gang go way back. You grew 
up  together  but  you  weren’t  friends.  Harris  used  to  make 
your  life  a  misery.  Once  a  bully,  always  a  bully…  You’ve 
made  good  for  yourself  since  then  and  Harris  is  down  in 
the gutter. Now it’s you who gets to come out on top. This 
is your chance to get revenge on him, acting in the name of 
the law…

Keeper: note This could be interpreted either as captur-
ing Harris and getting him back to town to face justice, or as 
motivation for personal revenge. 

Investigator motivations could be dealt randomly to 
the players. You may wish to create additional moti-
vations if you have more than four players. Randomly 
issuing motivations like these is a technique that you 
may  choose  to  use  in  future  scenarios.  A  reward  of 
1D6 points of Sanity is also offered as an incentive to 
the players. A little addition like this goes a long way 
towards  kick-starting  the  game  and  inspiring  some 
unforeseeable outcomes. 

Day 1: Briefing
Read the boxed text out loud to the players: 

The streets of Bennington are buzzing with news and 
gossip  about  the  gunfight  last  night  on  the  edge  of 
the forest. There is talk of police cars, sirens, shotgun 
blasts and escaped kidnappers. The locals are saying 
that three