.  At  first  the  target  has 
mobility  of  a  mile  or  so,  but  this  progressively  lessens  as 
the  chthonian  draws  nearer,  until  the  victim  may  not  be 

283 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsable to leave a particular room, or even a particular chair. 
The target immobilized, the chthonian erupts through the 
floor and collects its due. If the victim becomes aware of the 
mental influence of a chthonian, the hold may be broken by 
successfully making a POW roll versus the chthonian. Once 
a victim has experience of chthonians, a successful INT roll 
constitutes awareness.

A chthonian can telepathically contact a known human 
anywhere on the Earth, but it may take time before it can 
locate its victim’s mind.

It costs a chthonian one magic point to communicate with 
a human or to bind a human to a site for a day. Each ten miles 
of  distance  from  a  binding  also  costs  another  magic  point. 
Several chthonians may contribute magic points to compen-
sate for distance, but the POW rolls are made individually.

It costs no magic points to contact another chthonian, 

no matter at what distance.

Anecdotal  evidence  suggests  that  adults  may  be  able  to 
drain  a  human’s  magic  points,  but  nothing  definite  is  truly 
known.

Earthquake attacks: All adult chthonians can create earth-
quakes. Figure an earthquake’s force by totaling the POW of 
participating chthonians and dividing by 100. The result is 
the earthquake’s magnitude on the Richter Scale, but only 
in  the  first  diameter  of  100  yards.  In  the  next  100  yards, 
the  Richter  force  is  lessened  by  one,  and  so  on  for  each 
additional 100 yards until the strength of the quake can be 
ignored. Alternatively, the chthonians might limit the force 
in the center diameter and instead extend the quake’s diam-
eter-of-effect or maximum effect by multiples of 100 yards.

At least half of the participants must be directly under 
the  center  of  the  earthquake.  Each  chthonian  must  spend 
magic  points  equal  to  the  highest  Richter  Scale  number 
generated  for  the  quake.  Historically,  the  highest  Richter 
numbers  have  been  approximately  nines,  but  geological 
evidence exists of quakes that have been much stronger.

Spells: A full adult has a 50% chance of knowing 1D6 spells, 
most  of  which  should  be  connected  with  Shudde  M’ell 
and  Great  Old  Ones  tied  to  this  earth,  such  as  Cthulhu, 
Y’Golonac, Yig, etc.

averages 
260  
200  
260 
35  
90  
90  

rolls
(3D6 ×25)
(3D6+30 ×5)
(3D6 ×25) 
(2D6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5) 
(3D6 ×5) 

CHTHONIAN FULL ADULTS, Tentacled burrowers
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
HP: 46
Average Damage Bonus: +5D6
Average Build: 6
Average Magic Points: 18
Move: 6/1 burrowing 

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1D8. It may only use its crush attack once per 

round.

Fighting attacks: It’s dangerous to get near to these things. Their 
crushing bulk and flailing tentacles may strike at any moment.
Hold and Drain (mnvr): Each round, a chthonian can attack with 
1D8  tentacles,  each 