 and the money owed, or they may be more direct, say-
ing that all they want is the money and they don't care where 
it comes from—if they can’t find Leiter, the investigators are 
just as good a source for the cash (being in Leiter’s home and 
inheriting the debt by association). Should the investigators 
react violently, the duo will not shirk from a fight, however 
they are more likely to retreat and ambush the investigators 
at a later stage.

Cecil Hunter, Insane Forger
Hunter is a reedy, thin-faced man in his late-twenties with a 
freckled face and a shock of reddish-blond hair. When met 
he  will  likely  be  straightjacketed  and  under  observation, 
phasing  in  and  out  of  rational  thought  and  morbid  mut-
terings about, “Worms seething in the walls!” and reciting 
fractured  lines  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe.  He  resides  currently 
within  the  Admissions  Ward  of  the  Arkham  Sanatorium, 
his connection to the Witch Trial affair utterly unknown to 
anybody  at  the  Miskatonic  University,  having  been  placed 
there  by  Leiter  not  long  before  that  man’s  death.  Leiter 
passed himself off as a concerned ex-tutor, claiming to have 
visited  a  troubled  student  to  find  him  a  degenerate  state, 
thus  leaving  him  in  the  doctor’s  care  with  the  promise  of 
contacting Hunter’s family with the news—simply stalling 
for time on Leiter’s part. 

Hunter, a bohemian who was expelled from Miskatonic 
University some four years ago for licentious conduct, has for 
some time had a profitable secret relationship with Leiter, as-
sisting him in the more artistic aspects of historical forgeries. 
He lived in a studio apartment above a shabby washhouse in 
one of Arkham’s poorer neighborhoods and held court with 
a  variety  of  other  dissolute  types  when  he  was  in  money; 

the  proceeds  of  forgery 
being  his  sole  income. 
In  attempting  to  unravel 
and  copy  the  occult  text 
within  the  Witch  Trial 
Papers,  he  accidentally 
undid the bindings on the 
entity imprisoned within 
them.  He  was  subject  to 
the first major manifesta-
tion  of  the  horror  and 
the  experience  caused  a 
shattering  of  the  artist’s 
sanity.  The  creature  will 
return  again,  sooner  or 
later.

Facts and Clues

Cecil Hunter

T  Hunter  was  admitted  to  Arkham  Sanatorium  on 
September  17th,  suffering  a  profound  nervous 
breakdown and is considered as a danger to himself, 
having  partly  chewed  through  the  tendons  on  the 
backs of his own hands. Since then he has responded 
well  to  medication,  but  remains  withdrawn,  inco-
herent, and easily agitated.

T  He  was  admitted  by  a  self-professed  former  tutor, 
Professor Charles Leiter, who displayed his credentials 
and who claimed to have found the young man in this 
state at his home. Leiter promised to inform the man’s 
family and return, but no family has come forward.
T  The Horror may possess Hunter and have him escape.

Roleplaying hooks

T  Hunter is anxious to get the papers back so he can 

complete his work.

T  He wants to get out of the sanatorium, by any means.
T  He  begs  for  company  and  is  afraid  to  spend  time 
alone. If he escapes he may seek out the investiga-
tors’ company if they were sympathetic.

Manifestation: