. 
Usually  the  caster  must  have  complete  freedom  of  move-
ment, since gesture can be as important as chant.

A casting roll is required when a character attempts to 
cast a newly learned spell for the first time. Once a spell has 
been  successfully  cast  (even  if  a  pushed  roll  was  required 

Reading and translating Mythos tomes often takes months, even years.

177 

chapter 9: magicto  do  so),  subsequent  uses  do  not  require  a  casting  roll; 
non-player  characters  and  monsters  do  not  need  to  make 
casting rolls.

A Hard POW roll is required to successfully cast a spell 
the  first  time.  If  the  casting  roll  is  successful,  refer  to  the 
spell description for the outcome. If the casting roll is failed, 
nothing happens.

Following a failed casting roll, the character has a choice 
whether to make a second attempt to cast the spell (paying 
the costs a second time)—either immediately or at any time 
in the future—and, in doing so, push the casting roll. 

If the pushed casting roll is successful, the spell works nor-
mally without negative consequences. If the pushed casting 
roll  is  failed,  the  spell  still  works  normally,  but  dire  conse-
quences ensue for the caster. Ultimately a spell can always be 
cast—the casting roll gauges the harm the caster suffers in the 
process rather than success or failure of the spell.

The only alternative to this (other than giving up on the 
spell) is to go back to the source and learn the spell again 
from  scratch—usually  requiring  another  2D6  weeks  and 
a  Hard  INT  roll. After  relearning  the  spell,  another  initial 
casting  roll  may  be  made—this  is  a  much  more  cautious 
approach  than  pushing  the  casting  roll.  This  is  one  of  the 
reasons why wizards seek to extend their lives—miscasting 
the greater spells can be a fast route to the grave!

Failing a Pushed 
Casting Roll
The caster must pay the cost of the spell (Magic points, San-
ity points, and/or POW) multiplied by 1D6. Any overspend 
of Magic points is deducted from hit points—this can cause 
major wounds or death when pushing powerful spells. 

The  Keeper  should  add  one  or  more  of  the  following 
side  effects  for  less  powerful  spells  (choose  or  roll  1D8). 
Note that both the caster and others nearby can be affected.

1:  Blurred vision or temporary blindness.
2:  Disembodied screaming, voices, or other noises.
3:  Strong winds or other atmospheric effects.
4:  Bleeding—from  the  caster,  others  present,  or  the 

environment (e.g. the walls).
5:  Strange visions and hallucinations.
6:  Small animals in the vicinity explode.
7:  Foul smell of brimstone.
8:  Mythos monster is accidentally summoned.
For more powerful spells (those that summon gods or 

cost POW for example), the side effects can be worse:

1:  Earth shaking, walls rent asunder.
2:  Epic thunder and lightning.
3:  Blood falls from the sky.

Matthew’s initial attempt to cast the “Contact Ghoul” 
spell  has  failed,  and  he  has  decided  to  push  the  roll 
to try again. Unfortunately, the pushed roll fails too. 
Matthew has 13 Magic points and 13 hit points.

The  cost  of  the  spell  is  1D3  Sanity  points  and  5 
Magic points—reduced to 4 Magic points by the Keeper 
because it is being cast in a moonlit graveyard. Mat-
thew has already paid the cost twice: once for the first 
attempt and once for the pushed roll immediately after 
(le