  for  malpractice.  In  the 
case of a dying character, if a Pushed Medicine roll is failed, 
the patient dies.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  Pushed  roll,  the  results 
will be disturbing in the extreme, perhaps involving ampu-
tation  or  blood  poisoning  as  a  result  of  failed  attempts  to 
graft animal parts to the person.

Natural World (10%)
Originally  the  study  of  plant  and  animal  life  in  its  envi-
ronment.  By  the  nineteenth  century,  this  study  had  long 
separated  into  a  range  of  academic  disciplines  (Biology, 
Botany, etc.) As a skill, Natural World represents the tradi-
tional (unscientific) knowledge and personal observation of 
farmers, fishermen, inspired amateurs, and hobbyists. It can 

69 

chapter 4: skillsidentify  species,  habits,  and  habitats  in  a  general  way,  and 
identify tracks, spoors, and calls, as well as allowing guesses 
as to what may be important to a particular species. For a 
scientific  understanding  of  the  natural  world,  one  should 
look to the Biology, Botany and Zoology skills.

Natural World may or may not be accurate—this is the 
region of appreciation, judgment, folk tradition, and enthu-
siasm. Use Natural World to judge horseflesh at the county 
fair, or decide whether a butterfly collection is excellent or 
just excellently framed.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  identifying  a  particular  species; 
remembering some common lore; knowing the best 
place to catch some fish.

i  Hard  difficulty:  identifying  an  unusual  specimen; 
locating a rare species of plant or animal; remem-
bering a very obscure fact or piece of lore.

Pushing examples: spending much longer (forgetful of the 
time)  examining  the  habitat;  tasting  the  unknown  mush-
room or plant to get a better idea what it is; consulting with 
the old woman in the village about the local wildlife.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: you spend 
long  hours  obsessively  poring  over  books  to  identify  the 
species; you get the facts wrong, and instead of the wasps be-
ing repelled by your concoction of swamp mud and herbs, 
they are drawn to you (with painful results); you picked the 
wrong  mushroom  and  find  yourself,  hours  later,  walking 
naked towards a policeman.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
goes native and will be lost in the wilderness until friends 
come to their aid.

Navigate (10%)
Allows  the  user  to  find  his  or  her  way  in  storms  or  clear 
weather, in day or at night. Those of higher skill are familiar 
with astronomical tables, charts, instruments, and satellite 
location gear, as they exist in the era of play. One could also 
use  this  skill  to  measure  and  map  an  area  (cartography), 
whether an island of many square miles or the interior of 
a  single  room—use  of  modern  technology  may  lower  or 
negate the difficulty level.

Rolls for this skill may be made as concealed rolls by the 
Keeper—a matter for the investigators to attempt, and later 
witness the results. 

If  the  character  is  familiar  with  the  area,  a  bonus  die 

should be granted to the roll.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: keep on the right route; use the 
sun and stars to identify compass positions; map a 
small area of terrain.

i  Hard  difficulty:  head  in  the  right  direction  when 
there  is  no  clear  route 