  ask  what  would  have 
happened if things had gone differently; what if Hitler had 
used Mythos magic to win the war?

Pick a monster or god

Use  a  Mythos  entity  as  inspiration  for  a  scenario;  picking 
“fire vampire” gives a theme of fire, for example. They may 
be summoned to attack people and are linked with the god 
Cthugha. Who might worship such a god, who might want 
to summon fire vampires and why?

Create a cult

In Lovecraft’s stories, many beings of the Mythos are too pow-
erful to be defeated by human opponents and so horrific that 
direct  knowledge  of  them  causes  insanity. When  dealing  with 
such beings, Lovecraft needed a way to provide exposition and 
build tension without bringing the story to a premature end. Hu-
man followers gave him a way to reveal information about their 
"gods" in a diluted form and made it possible for his protagonists 
to win paltry victories. If the investigators are going up against 
powerful Mythos entities every week, it won’t be long before they 
are all dead. Using human cultists, worshippers, mad scientists, 
and  other  suitably  nefarious  characters  will  provide  not  only 
more evenly matched opponents but also variety in your games.

Survival horror

The  most  basic  of  human  motivations  is  survival.  What 
clearer theme can there be than fighting for one’s life? Sur-
vival horror is popular horror sub-genre and can work well 
for scenarios in which the investigators are thrown head-first 
into a threatening situation and are forced to act to survive.

Isolation

Creating Scenarios
This section looks at the basic ingredients of a Call of Cthul-
hu  adventure,  aiming  to  help  you  take  your  first  steps  in 
crafting scenarios for a group of intrepid investigators.

There is no one single approach to creating a scenario 
any more than there is one way to write a book or compose 
a song. Here is a selection of starting points.

Start with setting details and build a story 
from the ground up

Picking  the  1969  Woodstock  Festival  as  the  setting,  the 
Keeper sets about researching the period, people involved, 
etc., and uses it as inspiration for a plot. 

Remember, the onus must be on the investigators. It is they 
who should feel compelled to deal with the situation rather 
than calling on external help, such as the police. Sometimes 
the  isolation  of  remote  places  can  be  complete,  where  the 
investigators are miles away from society and lack the ability 
to  call  for  help.  In  other  situations  they  may  be  isolated  of 
their own volition; perhaps the investigators are wanted for a 
crime and are forced to isolate themselves to avoid arrest and 
imprisonment. In such situations the investigators must work 
on the fringes of society, outside of the protection of the law.

Pick a story

Seek  inspiration  from  a  Lovecraft  story  or  perhaps  some-
thing else, such as a film or television show. Make alterations 

213 

chapter 10: playing the gameto  it,  perhaps  stripping  it  down  to  its  essential  parts  then 
building  it  up  in  a  new  and  interesting  way.  For  example, 
take The Shadow over Innsmouth and place it in a lush forest-
ed area, replacing deep ones with monster-human hybrids 
who worship Shub-Niggurath.

Begin with a compelling opening scene

The  investigators  begin  aboard  a  bus.  Looking  out  of  the 
window they see a man, apparently a vagrant, screaming at 
the pigeons. All of a sudden a rip appears in the fabric of 
space and things begin to spew forth. Perhaps this man is a 
wizard, opening a gate to the Dreamlands.

Big ending

Beware  of  using  a  climactic  scene