, he or she be-
comes intensely fearful of the target and does their bidding.

Jump (20%)
With success, the investigator may leap up or down vertically, 
or jump horizontally from a standing or running start. When 
falling, Jump may be used to lessen the potential fall damage.
Judgment  must  be  exercised  as  to  what  constitutes  a 
regular jump, a hard jump or an extreme jump (respectively 
requiring Regular success, Hard success, and Extreme suc-
cess). As a guide, a regular success would be required for an 
investigator to safely leap down vertically to his or her own 
height, jump horizontally from a standing start across a gap 
for a distance equal to the jumper’s own height, or run and 
then jump horizontally to a distance of twice the jumper’s 
own height. One might achieve double this distance with an 
Extreme success, although bear in mind the world record for 
the long jump is around 29 feet.

 If falling from a height, a successful Jump prepares for 

the fall, reducing resultant damage by half.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  safely  leap  down  vertically  a 
distance  equal  to  the  jumper’s  own  height;  jump 
horizontally from a standing start, across a gap for a 
distance equal to the jumper’s own height; run and 
then  jump  horizontally  to  a  distance  of  twice  the 
jumper’s own height.

i  Hard  difficulty:  as  for  a  regular  difficulty  but 
increase  distances  by  50%;  perhaps  attempting  to 
jump from a rooftop and through the window of a 
neighboring building across the alley.

Pushing  examples:  Delaying  and  taking  time  to  assess 
the  jump;  throwing  all  your  weight  and  force  behind  the 
jump—really stretching for it. In some instances a Pushed 
roll is not possible; if one leaps across an abyss one cannot 
have a second attempt. However, if one is trapped in a pit 
and jumping to escape, one could have any number of at-
tempts,  which  would  then  be  summarized  by  one  Pushed 
skill roll.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  fall  and 
suffer physical harm; achieve the jump but a valuable pos-
session (of the Keeper’s choice) is dropped in the process.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she will 

become convinced that they can fly.

Language, Other (Specializations) (01%)
When choosing this skill, the exact language must be spec-
ified and written next to the skill. An individual can know 
any  number  of  languages.  The  skill  represents  the  user’s 
chance to understand, speak, read and write in a language 
other than his or her own. 

Ancient  or  unknown  languages  (such  as  Aklo,  Hyper-
borean,  etc.)  should  not  be  chosen  (unless  agreed  with  the 
Keeper), but ordinary earthly languages may be. The Keeper 
may raise the difficulty level if archaic speech or writing in 
that language is encountered. A single successful Other Lan-
guage roll normally allows comprehension of an entire book. 

66 

Call of CthulhuSuggestions regarding the Other Languages skill:
i  At  5%  skill  a  language  can  be  correctly  identified 

without need for a roll.

i  At 10% skill simple ideas can be communicated.
i  At 30% transactional requests can be understood.
i  At 50% skill a person is fluent.
i  At  75%  skill  in  a  character  can  pass  for  a  native 

speaker of a foreign language. 

i  To  identify  a  present-day  human  language  (un-
known to the investigator), use a Know roll.
i  To identify an extinct human language, use an Ar-

chaeology or History roll.

i 