 caster might be suit-

252 

Call of Cthulhuable, Y’golonac  tries  to  possess  a  friend,  who  (controlled) 
approaches the caster to tempt him or her into service.

Create Zombie

Cost: 16 magic points; 1D6 Sanity points

Casting time: a week

A  ritual  liquid  must  be  poured  over  a  corpse  or  into  the 
grave where a corpse lies. The Keeper determines the ingre-
dients of the liquid—at least one part should be difficult to 
obtain legally. 

The corpse is left to mature. At the end of a week, the 
caster comes to the grave and intones the binding ritual. At 
the end of the half-hour chant, the corpse claws its way from 
the grave and thereafter performs the caster’s will. The zom-
bie will perform mundane and simple tasks, such as “guard 
this,” “fetch that,” or “kill him!”

A zombie created in this manner continues to rot after it 
has risen. Thus, a wizard wishing a constant zombie servant 
must periodically create replacements.

Statistics for zombies can be found in Chapter 16: Mon-

sters, Beasts and Alien Gods.

For a number of variations on this spell see Spell Varia-

tions (see page 242).

Alternative names: Ritual of the Undying, Black Binding, 

The Ashen Cowl, Raising of the Dead.

Curse of the Putrid Husk

Cost: 5 magic points; 10 Sanity points

Casting time: 1 hour

This spell brings sanity-wracking illusions to the victim. The 
victim  perceives  that  his  or  her  skin  is  visibly  rotting  and 
corrupting.  The  outward  appearance  seems  to  deteriorate 
swiftly,  so  that  great  rents  and  tears  occur  through  which 
internal organs begin to tumble out (with the victim losing 
1D10  Sanity  points  in  the  process).  Thereupon  the  victim 
faints and awakens in a few minutes, whole and normal. 

For the spell to take effect an opposed INT roll must be 
made  between  the  caster  and  target—impose  one  penalty 
die on the target if the spell is cast at night, while the target 
is  sleeping.  The  entire  cycle  of  effect  takes  about  twenty 
minutes, including the faint.

The target must be known to the caster and the caster 
must have as a focus some personal object belonging to the 
target. The experience of the spell is devastating; however, 
successful Psychoanalysis can help the victim come to terms 
with  these  inexplicable  dreams  and  hallucinations  and  re-
store half of each such Sanity loss. Psychiatric drugs do little 
to compensate for such an attack.

Alternative  names:  The  Insidious  Nightmare,  Summon 
Seven Devils to Afflick Thine Enemy, Wither the Mind of the Weak.  

Create Barrier of Naach-Tith
Cost: variable magic points; 1D10 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 minute

The  barrier  provides  both  a  physical  and  magical  defense. 
Each participant in this spell loses 1D10 Sanity points and a 
variable number of magic points. Each magic point expended 
in the creation provides the barrier 3D10 points of STR. The 
spell  takes  1  minute  to  cast  (during  which  time  all  magic 
points to be used must be expended) and the resulting barrier 
lasts 1D4+4 hours. Anyone who knows the spell may partici-
pate in the casting and contribute magic points to the barrier.
The barrier is spherical in shape and about 100 yards in 
diameter. It can be cast around the casters to protect from 
harm or it can be cast to encompass a monster or enemy. 
Any  creature  bisected  by  the  barrier’s  boundary  upon  its 
creation  is unharmed and thrust outside the barrier