 Land

When  preparing  a  scenario  (or  between  sessions),  think 
about  the  investigators’  backstories  and  how  the  entries 
might  be  corrupted,  undermined  or  distorted,  given  the 
likely events of the scenario. 

193 

chapter 10: playing the gameThis  is  a  game  of  horror,  and  horror  is  most  effective 
when it hits close to home. In Lovecraft’s story The Shadow 
over  Innsmouth,  the  threat  to  the  narrator’s  sanity  comes 
not from the terrible monsters he encounters but from the 
realization concerning his own bloodline.

Plan out your intentions regarding investigator backsto-
ries from the outset so that they can be woven into the story. 
When  a  backstory  entry  is  later  corrupted,  the  revelation 
will flow naturally and be more pertinent to both the player 
and the overall story.

It can sometimes be difficult to come up with an appro-
priate entry in the middle of a game, so having a list of ideas 
prepared before the game can help, either tailored to specific 
investigators or just a general list that can be tweaked and 
handed out as needed. 

Each time an investigator experiences a bout of madness, 
you may add or amend a backstory entry on the investiga-
tor’s  sheet.  Corrupting  an  existing  backstory  entry  rather 
than  replacing  it  with  something  completely  new  can  be 
more effective in building the story, and serves to maintain 
a sense of continuity. Changing a backstory entry may have 
a direct effect on the investigator’s mind—the game reality 
has not changed; rather, the investigator has had a realiza-
tion concerning some aspect of it.

You are never compelled to amend backstory entries as 
a result of investigator insanity or injury. It may be that the 
game is in full flow and you do not wish to pause the action 
while you consider. Or it may be that you have changed an 
investigator’s  backstory  recently  and  do  not  wish  to  make 
any further alterations at the time. If you wish, you can delay 
the changes to allow yourself time to think, and then apply 
them before the next session of play.

The  Keeper  reviews  Harvey  Walters’  backstory  and 
considers  how  each  entry  might  be  amended  as  a 
result of insanity:

1. “Uncle Theodore, who inspired a love of archae-
ology. Harvey will prove himself a better man than his 
uncle, who was driven mad by his obsessions.”

Uncle Theodore could either turn out to be an evil-
doer, or Harvey could just believe him to be one as a re-
sult of paranoia. This entry could be corrupted to read, 
“Uncle  Theodore  is  a  bad  influence.  I  must  do  what 
I  can  to  save  his  soul,”  or “Uncle Theodore’s  artifacts 
present a danger to the world and must be destroyed!” 
or “Uncle Theodore is trying to recruit me as a cultist.”

2. “Fate. Looks for signs and omens.”
This could become “I begin to foresee the end of 
days,” or, “I have been chosen as a prophet and must 
tell people of what is to come.” Alternatively it might 
take a superstitious bent, “Careful not to tread on the 
cracks in the pavement.”

3. “Handsome, well-dressed and a little overweight.”
A love of good clothes speaks of a materialistic per-
son who takes pride in fashion and appearance. This 
may be altered to “Disdainful of material wealth,” or 
“Unaware of how ragged my clothes have become.”

Martha discovers the secret of her mother's heirloom mirror.

Rolling Dice

Dice Rule 1: The Keeper decides when to call for a skill roll. 
You (as Keeper) decide on the difficulty level for each skill 
roll and, by extension, decide whether a skill roll is required 
at all. If the task is routine