  also  allows  someone  to  improvise 
magical effects akin to spells. This is resolved in the same way 
as any regular skill use. The player first states an aim; the Keeper 
then considers if the aim is acceptable, suggesting a lesser aim 
in preference to blocking the player’s proposal if possible. 

The default difficulty level for use of the Cthulhu Mythos 
skill in this way is Regular. Alternatively, if the character is using 
their  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  to  affect  a  target  that  is  resisting 
them, treat this as an opposed roll between the caster’s Cthulhu 

Mythos  skill  and  the  target’s  POW;  no  further  POW-versus-
POW roll is required. In addition, the Keeper must decide on 
a cost in Magic points and Sanity points. The Keeper should 
gauge the cost and make it similar to a comparable spell. See the 
guidance in Chapter 11: Playing the Game. 

The  cost  and  consequence  of  pushing  the  Cthulhu 
Mythos skill roll and failing are the same as those for failing 
a pushed spell casting roll. The Keeper may allow the play-
er’s aim to be achieved when a pushed roll is failed, however 
this is not guaranteed as it is for a spell.

Unlike casting a spell, using the Cthulhu Mythos skill to 

achieve a given effect must be rolled for every time.
Some illustrations of spontaneous Cthulhu Mythos skill use:

To  cause  physical  harm  to  one  target:  the  caster  chooses 
the number of Magic points expended, and loses half that 
number of Sanity points. To be effective, the caster needs to 
beat the target in an opposed Cthulhu Mythos versus POW 
roll. If the caster wins the roll, the target takes damage equal 
to  the  number  of  magic  points  expended.  Nelson  extends 
his hand and screams, “Die!” The veins on his arms bulge 
and  turn  black,  and  he  focuses  on  the  approaching  beast. 
Nelson’s player spends 8 Magic points and 4 Sanity points, 
and then makes a Cthulhu Mythos skill roll, getting a Hard 
success (below half his skill). The Keeper makes a POW roll 
for the target, achieving a Regular success–Nelson wins. The 
Keeper describes the beast’s veins erupting in a mess of gore 
and deducts 8 hit points.

To  banish  a  monster:  the  caster  spends  Magic  points  equal 
to  one-fifth  of  the  monster’s  POW  and  1D3  Sanity  points. 
The caster must then succeed in an opposed Cthulhu Mythos 
versus  POW  roll  against  the  monster.  Enoch  stands  silently 
with eyes closed as the dark young of Shub-Niggurath stomps 
out of the tree line. Enoch has only 14 Magic points and must 
expend 18 to attempt to banish the monstrosity. He does so; 
taking 4 hit points of harm (the excess Magic point cost is paid 
in hit points). He whispers strange words to the beast, uncaring 
of the bloody tears that are flowing from his now open eyes. 
Enoch’s  player  makes  a  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  roll,  getting  a 
Regular success. The Keeper makes a POW roll for dark young, 
achieving  a  Hard  success–the  dark  young  wins.  The  Keeper 
tells how the dark young strides towards Enoch, who lacks the 
Magic points to push the roll and so turns to flee.

To  commune  with  the  recently  deceased:  costs  the  caster 
10  Magic  points  plus  1D10  Sanity  points.  The  effects  last 
a  few  rounds.  Charlie  dies  just  as  the  investigators  get  to 
him. “