  the  recently  deceased:  costs  the  caster 
10  Magic  points  plus  1D10  Sanity  points.  The  effects  last 
a  few  rounds.  Charlie  dies  just  as  the  investigators  get  to 
him. “Tell us who killed you,” they ask him, but it is too late. 
Placing her hands on Charlie’s chest, Violet implores Charlie 
to speak. Violet’s player spends 10 Magic points and 3 Sanity 
points,  and  then  makes  a  successful  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill 
roll. The Keeper explains, “You hear Charlie’s words croak 
from Violet’s throat…” The other players can now talk with 
Charlie  for  a  few  rounds.  The  Keeper  decides  enough  has 
been said and says, “Blood begins to bubble up in Violet’s 
throat. Violet you’re back! But you feel cold, so cold!” 

180 

Call of CthulhuLaurence (Daphne’s investigator) is sure that the ancient 
stone  tablet  he  holds  can  yield  valuable  information, 
yet he lacks the arcane knowledge required to unlock its 
secrets. Daphne looks at the Keeper and asks, “What if I 
try to use my Mythos knowledge to find a way?”

Keeper: “OK, what are you doing?”
Daphne:  “Holding  the  tablet  and  staring  deeply 

into it, mumbling under my breath.”

The Keeper considers that it would be cool if Lau-
rence could unlock the knowledge in the tablet, as it 
would move the game on nicely.

Keeper: “OK, it’ll cost you 3 Magic points and 1 

Sanity point—give me a roll.”

Laurence  has  14  Cthulhu  Mythos,  Daphne  rolls 

84—a failure. Nothing happens.

Daphne  considers:  “Bother!  I  go  outside,  under 
the  moon  and  start  yelling  out  the  names  of  all  the 
Mythos gods that I’ve read about and try to open my 
mind to the tablet.”

The  Keeper  likes  the  sound  of  this  and  agrees  to 
a  pushed  roll.  Daphne  crosses  off  another  3  Magic 
points and 1 Sanity point.

Daphne fails again, with a roll of 34. Laurence will 
have to suffer the consequences. She rolls 3 on 1D6 for the 
multiplier (see The consequences of Failing a Pushed 
Casting Roll, page 178), so Laurence must lose another 
9  Magic  points  (3  ×  3)  and  another  3  Sanity  points. 
Laurence has now spent 15 Magic points, which is more 
than he possesses, so he loses several hit points as well, 
leading the Keeper to include physical harm as part of the 
consequence of failing the pushed roll. Whether Daphne 
gains any insights is up to the Keeper.

The  Keeper  describes  the  consequence:  “You  are 
squeezing  the  tablet  so  hard  that  the  skin  on  your 
hands begins to blister and split. Blood starts to seep 
out.  It  crawls  across  the  tablet  and  begins  to  form 
letters. You  stare  intently  at  the  letters  as  they  form 
words. You can read the words, they say…”

The Keeper decides to grant Daphne some insight 
into the knowledge held within the tablet, but at quite 
a cost to Laurence’s health and sanity.

181 

chapter 9: magic182 

Call of Cthulhueing the Keeper can be immensely rewarding; 
you get to make a lot of decisions about what 
happens during the game, present the mystery 
to the players, and portray numerous non-play-
er characters and monsters. You will also be the 
