  travel 
between  the  planes,  or  the  power  to  see  into  other  planes 
via a piece of magic glass or the like. Yog-Sothoth may also 
give its slaves the ability to command various monsters from 
distant worlds.

In  return  for  these  gifts,  worshipers  open  the  way  for 
Yog-Sothoth to travel from his usual domains to Earth, to 
ravage and plunder.

As  Tawil  at’Umr,  all  those  wishing  to  travel  to  distant 
times and places may safely deal with him. This form seems 
to be the least malignant way in which to meet him but even 
then there is always a danger that Tawil at’Umr will remove 
its  veil  and  cause  utter  madness  and  destruction  to  those 
dealing with it.

Other Characteristics

Yog-Sothoth holds the power to travel within the planes to 
reach any other time or space. Yog-Sothoth itself is cotermi-
nous with all time and space. Because of this, Yog-Sothoth 
has  been  called  the  Key  and  the  Gate.  In  Yog-Sothoth’s 
aspect as Opener of the Way it is recorded as Umr at’Taw-
il,  the  correct  Arabic  form  would  be  Tawil  at’Umr,  which 
means  the  Prolonged  of  Life. Yog-Sothoth  wishes  to  enter 
this plane to feast on the life it contains, but only can do so 
at certain times.

Yog-Sothoth can fly through our atmosphere at speeds 

of hundreds or thousands of miles per hour.

Yog-Sothoth

INT 200

YOG-SOTHOTH, The All-In-One
STR N/A  CON 2000  SIZ varies  DEX 5 
POW 500  HP 400
Damage Bonus: N/A
Build: varies
Magic Points: 100
Move: 100

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Uses following special attacks.
Spheres: Each combat round, Yog-Sothoth may touch one charac-
ter with its slimy spheres and that character immediately loses 
3D10 CON. This damage is permanent and will not heal nor-
mally. It takes the form of corrosion, withering, or corruption 
of the body part touched, and may also involve an APP loss for 
the victim. 

Bolts: Alternatively, Yog-Sothoth may unleash bolts of silvery fluid 
or  fire  (at  a  cost  of  1D6  magic  points)  which  can  reach  over 
half a mile and destroy any normal objects struck—knocking 
down aircraft and slaying or stunning any or all humans failing 
to Dodge. A gout of energy covers an area about 5 yards across 
with its effect.

Spheres 100% (50/20), damage 3D10 permanent CON 
Bolts 80% (40/18), damage death in 5-yard diameter 
Armor:  None,  however  only  magical  weapons  may  damage 

Yog-Sothoth. 

Yog-Sothoth can transport one character per round any-
where in the universe or anywhere in time by touching him.

Spells: As many as it wants.
Sanity Loss: 1D10/1D100 Sanity points to see it in spherical form. 

No cost to see Tawil at’Umr form.

331 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsZoth-Ommog

Zoth-Ommog

A body shaped like a broad-based, truncated cone. A flat, 
blunt, wedge-shaped, vaguely reptilian head surmounts this 
conical torso, and the head is almost entirely hidden behind 
swirling tresses. This hair, or beard and mane, consists of 
thickly carved and coiling ropes, like serpents or worms …
Through this rep