 town with 
whatever  wealth  he  could  muster,  leaving  the  name  and 
career he had built behind him. On the evening of the 23rd 
September, Leiter returned to his faculty office in the Mis-
katonic University to retrieve what items of value he could. 
Leiter’s last act was a somewhat noble one. When possessed 
by  the  Horror,  rather  than  do  its  bidding  (and  knowing 
his end was nigh), he forced himself to look fixedly into a 
mirror; his soul was burnt out and he died behind his own 
locked  door  sometime  after  midnight.  His  body,  frozen 
in a paroxysm of terror, was discovered the next day. The 
cause of death has since been officially recorded as sudden 
heart  failure,  however  dark  rumors  already  circulate  on 
campus that that is far from the whole of the truth. 

A cursory investigation by the Faculty Head, Dean Fal-
lon, has uncovered disquieting evidence of the hidden life 
Leiter was leading (although Fallon has barely scratched the 
surface), and the absence of the Witch Trial Papers. A scandal 
and perhaps criminal (or at least civil) proceedings against 
the University by the papers’ owners is imminent if answers 

365 

Menaces, Hidden,  
and Otherwise
This scenario possesses several dangers for the inves-
tigators, both mortal and otherworldly. It is up to the 
Keeper, and in no small part the actions of the investi-
gators, just what dangers will be confronted and when. 
Keepers should not give players who "bull in a china 
shop" their way through the investigation an easy time 
of it—the less subtle and incautious the investigators 
are, the more danger they may place themselves in. 

The Mob: The most mundane of these are Leiter’s 
creditors, specifically a pair of gangster heavies sent to 
make good on Leiter’s debts any way they can. Until 
they see a body, they aren’t going to quit; after all this 
wouldn’t be the first person to have feigned death in 
order to run out on a debt.

The  Suspects:  Even  though  Charles  Leiter  didn’t 
know and wouldn’t have believed what he had in his 
hands, there exist those who may well have done and 
who have secrets of their own. Perhaps a student with 
an axe to grind or a dealer in stolen art and antiquities 
with the darkest of appetites—the Dramatis Personae 
section  offers  a  number  of  potential  individuals  who 
might not take kindly to the investigators asking ques-
tions  and  poking  around  in  their  affairs—regardless 
of whether they actually have the Witch Trial Papers 
themselves.  Such  individuals  may  be  easily  provoked 
into humiliating, blackmailing or attacking the investi-
gators if they feel threatened with exposure. 

Bound  in  Blood  and  Ink:  Caught  in  very  fabric 
of  the  Arkham  Witch  Trial  Papers,  something  other-
worldly  and  utterly  inimical  to  life  has  slumbered  for 
centuries—mere  moments  to  its  alien  perceptions. 
In  the  papers’  separation  and  the  forger’s  clumsy  at-
tempts to replicate the broken geometry of the image 
that  imprisoned  it,  the  creature’s  bindings  are  slowly 
unraveling and it is slowly sliding into the world, with 
increasing solidity and power. Those who have come 
into physical contact with the Papers are at risk as the 
Horror  hunts  them  down  and  possesses  them,  using 
them as vessels through which it causes mayhem and 
death.

The Ticking Bomb: Though the investigators will 
not at first be aware of it, a countdown is in operation 
and, if it is allowed to reach zero, there will be blood. 
Simply returning the papers is not enough and those 
who do not deal with the