 target. If successful, the target obeys the com-
mands of the caster without exception until the next combat 
round concludes.

254 

Call of CthulhuElder Sign
Cost: 10 POW
Casting time: 1 hour

Enchant Book
Cost: variable POW; 1D4 Sanity points
Casting time: 3 days

Its decoration…was, rather, in the rough shape of a star, in the 
center of which there appeared to be a caricature of a single 
giant  eye;  but  it  was  not  an  eye,  rather  a  broken  lozenge  in 
shape with certain lines suggestive of flames or perhaps a soli-
tary pillar of flame.

—August Derleth and H.P. Lovecraft,  

      The Lurker at the Threshold.

Aids in summoning star vampires by enchanting any book 
in  which  is  inscribed  the  words  of  the  spell  Summon/
Bind Star Vampire. The book’s ink must contain the ichor 
of  a  star  vampire.  The  caster  sacrifices  a  varying  amount 
of  POW,  loses  1D4  Sanity  points,  and  meditates  for  three 
days. For each point of POW channeled to the book, add 2 
percentiles to the caster’s chance of success with Summon/
Bind Star Vampire.

The  spell  activates  an  Elder  Sign.  Each  active  Elder  Sign 
takes  a  sacrifice  of  10  POW  to  create,  but  costs  no  Sanity 
points.  An  Elder  Sign  may  be  formed  into  a  leaden  seal, 
carved in rock, forged in steel, etc. When made active beside 
an opening or Gate, it makes that path unusable to minions 
of the Great Old Ones and Mythos Gods, as well as to those 
greater  beings  themselves.  Without  the  spell,  the  symbol 
itself means nothing and has no effect.

The  writings  of  certain  scribes  apart,  the  Elder  Sign  is 
worthless in personal defense if the monster or minion can 
evade the Sign. Those wearing an Elder Sign around the neck, 
for instance, might gain protection for a few square inches 
of flesh where the Sign rests against the skin; however, the 
rest of the wearer’s body would be completely vulnerable.

Alternative  names:  The  Elder  Seal,  The  Omen  Branch, 

The Five Points of Wisdom.

Enchantment Spells
A number of Enchant spells exist, each used to imbue magic 
into a different device or artifact. Each spell involves a blood 
sacrifice,  the  sacrifice  of  magic  points,  the  loss  of  1D4  or 
more Sanity points, and at least a game day of time.

There are four enchanted items of permanent duration 
for which no spell of creation is known: the Glass from Leng, 
the Lamp of Alhazred, the Plutonian Drug, and the Shining 
Trapezohedron.  These  four,  exceedingly  rare  items  are  in-
cluded  in  Chapter  15: Artifacts  and Alien  Devices  under 
their alphabetical entries, not in the list of enchantments.

Crafting an enchantment or an artifact brings risks. The 
item may have unpredictable advantages and disadvantages. 
While it might be useful for probing more deeply into the 
Mythos,  it  might  also  expose  investigators  to  monstrous 
encounters, or could offer a way to another dimension.

Keepers  should  consider  how  an  enchanted  item  or 
artifact may affect the game. Since the spell or the artifact is 
unlikely to vanish from play once introduced; it will alter the 
abilities (for good or ill) of the investigators. Make sure you 
are certain of what it does, what it costs and its implications 
for your game.

Enchant Knife
Cost: variable POW; 1D4 Sanity