 magic182 

Call of Cthulhueing the Keeper can be immensely rewarding; 
you get to make a lot of decisions about what 
happens during the game, present the mystery 
to the players, and portray numerous non-play-
er characters and monsters. You will also be the 
final arbiter of how rules are applied, and this 
chapter contains advice and guidance intended to help you 
use those rules to best effect. 

Before  reading  this  chapter  make  sure  you  have  read 

chapters 4-10. 

New Keepers
When you act as Keeper you become the game moderator. 
Whether you are using a published scenario or creating one 
of your own, you alone know the story plot and the likely 
outcomes and solutions. Your job is to present the mystery 
and story during play, incidentally playing the roles of mon-
sters and sinister or ordinary people that the investigators 
meet. You have the responsibility for preparing and running 
the scenario without bias. Above all else, you should listen to 
your players and react to what they say and do.

Having a good understanding of the game and the rules 
is essential in enabling you to answer player questions and to 
be able to present the material fairly. You will find individual 
monster and spell descriptions in other chapters—you don’t 
need to memorize this information, just be familiar with it.
With the purchase of this book and some dice, you have 
everything needed to play Call of Cthulhu. It is recommend-
ed that you start with either The Haunting—in the Call of 
Cthulhu  Quick-Start  Rules,  a  free  download  at  www.chao-
sium.com, or Amidst the Ancient Trees (page 346). These 
scenarios have been specifically presented for new Keepers, 
with  advice  dotted  throughout  the  text.  Pick  one  to  play, 
read  the  scenario  through,  and  then  invite  some  friends 
over  to  play.  Have  them  create  investigators  together—be 
sure to have the relevant sheets printed out or photocopied 
in advance.

Summarize  the  rules  for  your  players.  Don’t  try  to  ex-
plain every rule in detail—just give them a brief overview 
and  then  address  specific  rules  as  they  arise  in  play.  Once 
everyone is ready, introduce the scenario and work your way 

When meeting  
prospective players 
for the first time, try 
to arrange to meet in 
a safe public place 
such as a cafe or 
bar. Don’t give out 
your phone number 
or address to anyone 
until you get to know 
them.

through it.

Do not be concerned if 
you  make  some  mistakes 
the first time around. When 
you  have  finished  playing, 
read through the rules and 
this  chapter  again.  After 
having run one game, the 
rules and advice will make 
a lot more sense. You will 
continue  to  hone  your 
“Keepering”  skills  over  a 
number of games as you 
familiar 
become  more 
with the game.

Experienced 
Keepers
The Call of Cthulhu roleplaying 
game has been around for over 
30 years, so many of you reading 
this will be old hands when it 
comes to running the game. You 
will have noticed that this  
edition presents some  
modifications to the rules and 
this chapter is intended to offer 
advice on how to integrate these 
changes into your game.

You may wish to invent your own scenarios—that’s great, 
but it’s probably best to start with the ones in this book or 
consult  one  of  the  many  Call  of  Cthulhu  scenario  supple-
ments available. Published scenarios can be a great source of 
information about crafting a story into an adventure, as well 
as providing an insight into how the game can be played.  

Finding Players
Okay, so you’ve got the Call of Cthulhu rulebook and some 
roleplaying 