If  an  investigator  has  already  experienced  something 
similar to one of the paintings in a dream, the player con-
cerned should make a Sanity roll, losing the same amount as 
originally prompted by the dream. Apply the usual rule here 
to limit cumulative loss from one source. Thus if the SAN 
loss for the particular dream is 1D6, the maximum that can 
be lost for having the dream and then seeing the painting is 
a total of 6 Sanity points.

The  investigators  may  be  following  Eugene’s  direction 
or Harris’ tracks. Alternatively they might track the artists’ 
attackers towards the lake.

Day 3: The Hideout
In  a  clearing  stands  an  old  cabin.  The  door  is  closed  and 
there’s no sign of movement. 

Day 3: Turner’s Cabin
Heading  back  to  the  tracks  through  the 
forest,  the  posse  finds  it  divides  in  two. 
One  road  looks  recently  used,  the  other 
less  so.  Freshly  fallen  leaves  lie  on  the 
forest floor, an event that shouldn’t hap-
pen until the Fall. Anyone who has experienced the Dream 
Call handout "A Path Through the Forest" will recognize the 
lesser-used road as part of the path from their dream (Sanity 
roll, 0/1 SAN loss). If they advance down the recently used 
track, go to Day 3: The Dig Site (see page 358). 

If  they  advance  down  the  older,  less  used  track,  they 
come upon a clearing to the left where another, older cabin 
resides: Turner’s cabin. This is instantly familiar to anyone 
who has experienced the Dream Call handout "A Cabin in 
Darkness" as being the cabin from their dream (Sanity roll, 
1/1D6 SAN loss, as the horror of the initial dream is relived 
in their mind). The trail continues past the clearing as well, 
to Day 3: The Lake (see page 358).

Inside,  there  are  Civil  War  Union  army  uniforms  and 
hats  hung  upon  pegs,  bloodstained  hunting  knives  on  the 
table,  and  long-dead  animals  hanging  from  hooks  in  the 

356 

Call of CthulhuG Some small traces of the green dust-like decay is still 
present, having fallen from the servants while inside. 
Science (Biology or Botany) rolls are unable to dis-
cern exactly what this substance is beyond possibly 
being some kind of decaying fungus or mold. 

The  Keeper  is  encouraged  to  relay  the  information 
found  in  the  diary  verbally  to  build  atmosphere.  There  is 
no handout presented here, allowing the Keeper to control 
how much information the investigators get from the diary 
about the events leading up to their transformation into un-
dead servants—reveal as little or as much as you wish. Only 
the  last,  most  important  passage  of  the  diary  is  presented 
below to be read aloud to the investigators:

At last our journey is over. We fled the army to escape 
with our lives and make a new start in Canada, but 
instead  we  have  found  that  which  we  desire  on  the 
shores of the black lake north of Somerset. It called us 
here with the promise of life everlasting. It called us 
here in our dreams. It exists here and yet not here at 
the same time. It remains trapped in a crystal prison 
from which it longs to be freed. It came here so many 
centuries ago upon a comet that broke apart and was 
scattered  around  the  world.  One  such  piece  landed 
here, with part of the crystal that keeps it bound. If 
we aid it in finding the crystal and deliver it the lake, 
our benefactor can destroy it, weakening the strength 
of  the