 of the Woode (Sum-
mon/Bind  Dark  Young),  Call  Forth  Wind  Spirit 
(Summon/Bind Byakhee), Call Forth The Unseen 
Walker  (Summon/Bind  Dimensional  Shambler), 
Dream Vision (Contact Deity/Cthulhu).

The Book Of Eibon
Three versions follow:

Book Of Eibon 

English, translation unknown, c. 15th century
A flawed and incomplete translation. Eighteen copies by 
various hands are known to exist today. 

Sanity Loss: 2D4
Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+8 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 33
Study: 32 weeks
Suggested Spells: Call/Dismiss Azathoth, Contact Form-
less  Spawn  of  Zhothaqquah  (Formless  Spawn), 
Contact Deity/ Kthulhut (Cthulhu), Contact Deity/
Yok Zothoth (Yog-Sothoth), Contact Deity/Zhoth-
aqquah  (Tsathoggua),  Create  Gate,  Create  Mist  of 
R’lyeh, Enchant Knife, Green Decay, Wither Limb.

Liber Ivonis

Latin, translated by Caius Phillipus Faber, 9th century 
Although the original is said to have been written by Eibon, 
wizard  of  Hyperborea,  no  earlier  versions  than  the  Latin 
have  been  verified.  Never  printed,  six  bound  manuscript 
versions have been listed in library collections. 

Sanity Loss: 2D4
Cthulhu Mythos: +4/+9 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 39
Study: 36 weeks 
Suggested Spells: Call/Dismiss Azathoth, Contact Form-
less  Spawn  of  Zhothaqquah  (Formless  Spawn), 
Contact Deity/ Kthulhut (Cthulhu), Contact Deity/
Yok Zothoth (Yog-Sothoth), Contact Deity/Zhoth-
aqquah (Tsathoggua), Create Barrier of Naach-Tith, 
Create Gate, Create Mist of R’lyeh, Enchant Knife, 
Green Decay, Voorish Sign, Wither Limb.

Egyptians are thought to have come 
into possession of the Book of Eibon 
through trading with fabled Atlantis. 
Survivors of the great Atlantian 
disaster are also thought to have       
carried the book with them, inscribed 
on tablets, to many parts of Europe, 
including Ireland, France, and Greece.

Through a pact with Tsathoggua,       
Eibon gained greater knowledge and 
power, and even went so far as to 
discover a way to pass through the 
seals of the god’s throne room under 
Mount Voormithadreth to personally 
visit him. 

In fear of his power, the priests 
of Yhoundeth drove a campaign of               
persecution against Eibon, finally causing 
him to flee through a “door” that led 
to Saturn. Despite the years since this 
happened, wanderers of dreams and other 
places have, from time to time, mentioned 
meeting an ancient sage called Eibon. 
Whether this is one and the same remains 
conjecture.

Livre d’Ivon

French, translated by Gaspard du Nord, c. 13th century 
Bound,  handwritten  manuscript  of  which  thirteen  speci-
mens, partial or complete, are known to exist. 

Sanity Loss: 2D4

Cthulhu Mythos: +4/+8 percentiles

Mythos Rating: 36

Study: 36 weeks 

Suggested Spells: same as Liber Ivonis.

Celaeno Fragments
Holographic manuscript in English, by Dr. Laban Shrewsbury, 
1915 (1938) 
A  single  copy  is  known  to  exist,  deposited  at  Miskatonic 
University  Library  shortly  before  the  author 