  not  until  late  in  Lovecraft’s  career—and  then 
probably only at the urging of some of his younger corre-
spondents—that he began to integrate into his later stories 
some  of  the  creations  found  in  his  earliest  tales.  In “The 
Shadow  over  Innsmouth”  (1931)  we  find  the  deep  one 
hybrids worshiping Dagon, a creature not mentioned since 
the story “Dagon” (1917), his second piece of adult fiction. 
Similarly, the fictional city of Arkham and its Miskatonic 
University, first used as backdrops in “The Picture in the 
House”  (1920)  and  "Herbert  West—Reanimator"  (1921-
1922), are finally developed in his later stories, beginning 
with  “The  Dunwich  Horror”  (1928)  and  continuing 
through  to “The  Thing  on  the  Doorstep”  (1933).  At  the 
Mountains  of  Madness  (1931)  and  “The  Shadow  Out  of 
Time”  (1934-1935)  contain  detailed  histories  of  pre-hu-
man Earth, describing the different alien beings that had 
in the past visited and colonized the planet. Some of these 
races,  such  as  the  fungi  from  Yuggoth  and  the  Cthulhu 
spawn,  were  from  earlier  stories  and  were  carefully  inte-
grated into these late-devised histories. 

The  dreaded  Necronomicon,  one  of  Lovecraft’s  most 
famous  creations,  undergoes  a  gradual  evolution.  First 

The Master of American Horror, H.P. Lovecraft

Kulten and the mad poet Justin Geoffrey, author of the ter-
rible People of the Monolith. These were also incorporated 
into Lovecraft’s stories, along with references to Howard’s 
prehistoric Cimmeria.

The  young  Robert  Bloch  provided  the  blasphemous 
books De Vermiis Mysteriis and the Cultes des Goules, as well 
as the interstellar and invisible star vampire that devoured 
a  thinly  disguised  HPL  in  Bloch’s  “Shambler  from  the 
Stars” (1935). Bloch’s creations were quickly absorbed by 
Lovecraft, who also revenged his “murder” by dispatching 
protagonist Robert Blake in the “The Haunter of the Dark” 
(1936). Long-time friend Frank Belknap Long brought to 
the collection both the hounds of Tindalos and Chaugnar 
Faugn, who appeared in “The Horror in the Hills”, a story 
by Long based on one of Lovecraft’s many vivid dreams.

August  Derleth  added  the  most  to  the  now-growing 
collection of Great Old Ones and alien races. Continuing 
to write new Cthulhu Mythos stories long after Lovecraft’s 
death  in  1937,  he  created,  among  others,  Cthugha,  the 
Tcho-Tcho people, Ithaqua, and the sand-dwellers. Basing 
a  number  of  his  tales  in  Lovecraft’s  fictional  towns  of 
Arkham,  Dunwich,  Innsmouth,  and  Kingsport,  he  also 
introduced  such  characters  as  Dr.  Laban  Shrewsbury. Al-
though many disagree with Derleth’s interpretations—his 
desire to create a pantheon of good gods based on Love-
craft’s  Nodens,  and  his  attempts  to  define  Cthulhu  and 
Nyarlathotep  as  elementals—none  will  deny  this  man’s 
tireless efforts in keeping the works of Lovecraft in print 
and available to the public in the decades following HPL