  could  potentially  move  20  locations  in 
one chase round.

Escaping the Pursuer
The pursuer can continue chasing the fleeing character so 
long as their location or direction of travel can be identified. 
Each  chase  is  unique,  with  its  own  string  of  locations,  so 
Keeper  judgments  must  be  made  about  points  where  the 
pursuer might lose the quarry. 

A deep one is chasing Harvey through an abandoned 
theater.  At  the  start  of  a  round  the  deep  one  is  still 
in the theater, while Harvey has exited and is now 3 
chase locations ahead. As the deep one exits the the-
ater, the Keeper makes a Tracking roll; can the deep 
one pick up Harvey’s trail? If not, the chase is over.

Hiding
A Fleeing character can attempt to hide from the pursuer at 
any point in the chase. Clearly, having a longer lead will pro-
vide more time in which to hide. The Keeper should weigh  
the situation as with any skill roll before setting a difficulty 
level. If the pursuer fails to find the hidden investigator with 
a Spot Hidden roll, the quarry has evaded capture.

Hiding a vehicle is not easy, but if there are hiding places 
and if the vehicle has sufficient lead, it may be attempted. 
A  combined  Stealth  and  Drive  Auto  skill  roll  (Combined 
Rolls, page 92) is used to hide a vehicle, with the roll needing 
to succeed against both skills.

141 

chapter 7: chasesHarvey  is  fleeing  from  a  deep  one.  The  deep  one 
follows Harvey, who decides to hide in an abandoned 
building.  Deep  ones  don’t  have  a  Spot  Hidden  skill 
listed; the Keeper decides that the creature’s skill would 
be below 50%, and so Harvey must make a Stealth roll 
at Regular difficulty level. The Keeper awards Harvey 
two  bonus  dice  since  he  had  a  good  lead  and  there 
are  plenty  of  hiding  places.  Harvey’s  player  rolls  45, 
65,  and  75—all  failures.  Harvey  hears  the  deep  one 
entering the building and bursts out of his cover, only 
to  find  himself  trapped,  about  to  be  attacked  by  the 
deep one!

Another  Example:  Amy  has  a  good  lead  on  her 
pursuers and seeks to hide her car by driving into an 
underground parking garage. Amy has 60% Drive Auto 
and 40% Stealth. Her pursuer is only just out of sight 
and  might  catch  a  glimpse  of  Amy’s  car  entering  the 
garage, so the Keeper sets the difficulty level to Regular. 
Amy rolls 47, a Regular success for Drive Auto but not 
for Stealth; her pursuers spot her entering the garage!

Passengers
Passengers do not make a speed roll and do not have move-
ment actions. They may act once on their turn in the DEX 
order.  Typically,  vehicle  passengers  might  use  firearms  or 
throw things out of the car to obstruct those following. 

One  passenger  can  assist  the  driver  with  navigation, 
reading maps, and offering advice on how to negotiate haz-
ards. If a passenger uses their action to assist the driver in 
this way they may make one Spot Hidden or Navigate skill 
roll. If successful, on the vehicle’s next move, the vehicle can 
accelerate  once  with  1  fewer  penalty  die  (see  Pedal to the 
Metal, page 139). Thus, the vehicle might advance up to 3 
locations with no penalty die, or up to 5 with 1 penalty die.

Ranged Attacks During a Chase
Firearms can be used during a chase: If a character on foot 
stops for a moment, he or she may use a