.  Thus  is  the  power  of  that 
which  lies  at  the  center  of  reality  that  many  seekers 
of forbidden knowledge have been driven mad in the 
pursuit of his secret name—a name said to hold sway 
and power over ‘those from outside’.

Azathoth

Azathoth
That last amorphous blight of nethermost confusion which 
blasphemes and bubbles at the center of all infinity—the 
boundless daemon sultan Azathoth, whose name no lips 
dare speak aloud, and who gnaws hungrily in inconceivable, 
unlighted chambers beyond time amidst the muffled, 
maddening beating of vile drums and the thin  
monotonous whine of accursed flutes.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath

Azathoth is the ruler of the Gods, and has existed since the 
beginning of the universe. It dwells beyond normal space-
time  at  the  center  of  the  universe,  where  its  amorphous 
body  writhes  unceasingly  to  the  monotonous  piping  of  a 
flute. Lesser gods dance mindlessly round Azathoth to the 
same music. Azathoth is described as both blind and idiotic, 
a  “monstrous  nuclear  chaos.”  The  urges  of  Azathoth  are 
immediately fulfilled by Nyarlathotep.

Cult
Azathoth  is  little-worshiped,  for  the  god  offers  not  even 
gratitude in return. Usually humans call upon Azathoth by 
accident, and thereby unwittingly bring disaster and horror. 
Only the criminally insane would knowingly worship such 
a being. Nonetheless, such worshipers may have special in-
sights into the nature of the universe, its origin, powers, and 
meaning,  insights  perhaps  understandable  only  by  other 
madmen.

Other Characteristics
Azathoth  always  manifests  with  a  servitor  flautist  to  play 
its music, and 1D10–1 Lesser Other Gods. Summoners risk 
Azathoth  striking  out  in  irritation,  the  percentile  chance 
equal  to  100%  minus  ten  percentiles  for  each  Other  God 
who  arrived,  and  minus  another  five  percentiles  for  each 
magic  point  that  the  sorcerer  expends  to 
placate  the  god.  The  magic  points  sacri-
ficed must be renewed each round. 

If  angered,  Azathoth  grows:  on 

the  first  round  that  it  attacks,  it  also 
burgeons  out  from  its  summoned 
confines,  and  its  pseudopods  have 
a  reach  of  50  yards.  On  the  second 
combat  round  it  has  a  reach  of  100 
yards,  the  third  round  giving  it 
200  yards,  and  so  on,  doubling 
each round indefinitely.

There 

is  also  a  chance 

that  Azathoth  voluntarily 
departs 
angered,  equal 
to  ten 

it  becomes 

if 

312 

Call of CthulhuBast
Beauty—coolness—aloofness—philosophic repose—self-suf-
ficiency—untamed mastery—where else can we find these 
things with even half the perfection and completeness that 
mark their incarnation in the peerless and softly gliding cat?
—H.P. Lovecraft, Cats and Dogs

Bast, the Cat Goddess, is represented as a cat or as a woman 
with a cat’s head. In ancient Egypt she was often shown with 
a  sistrum  in  her  right  hand,  an  aegis  surmounted  with  a 
lion’s head in her left hand, and a small bag slung