factors that lend a distinct advantage or disadvantage are taken 
into account. Some options follow, but others may occur to you 
during play. Modifiers grant either a bonus die or a penalty die.

Diving for Cover (Penalty die)
A target that is aware of being fired upon may react by diving 
for cover. This may mean jumping behind a physical barrier, 
throwing oneself to the floor, or ducking and diving at speed 
in an attempt to present a more difficult target.

Diving  for  cover  requires  a  Dodge  roll.  If  this  is  suc-
cessful,  the  target  presents  a  more  difficult  target  and  the 
attacker gets one penalty die.

Diving for cover is a desperate response to a desperate 
situation. A character that opts to dive for cover forfeits their 
next  attack  (regardless  of  whether  they  were  successful  or 
not). If they have already used their attack this round, they 
forfeit their attack in the following round. The only option 
available to a character that has dived for cover, until their 
next  attack,  is  to  dodge  further  attacks.  If  an  individual 
with multiple attacks dives for cover, they forfeit all of their 
attacks, not just a single attack.

Cover and Concealment (Penalty die)
The degree of protection offered by cover is at the Keeper’s 
discretion; a wooden fence may not stop a bullet, but it does 
obscure the target, making the shot more difficult. Conceal-
ment of at least half of the target adds one penalty die to a 
firearms attack. 

A target that breaks cover even briefly (to fire shots for 
example)  may  be  targeted  by  another  character—if  that 
character is holding his or her turn.

Point-Blank Range (Bonus die)
If  the  target  is  at  point-blank  range—within  a  fifth  of  the 
shooter’s DEX in feet—the attacker gains a bonus die.

An attacker that is using a firearm at point-blank range 
may  be  targeted  by  melee  attacks  and  could  be  disarmed 
with  a  successful  fighting  maneuver  on  their  opponent’s 
turn. A target may not fight back against or dodge a Firearm 
attack as they can a Fighting attack.

Aiming (Bonus die)
The intention to take careful aim must be declared on the 
character’s  turn  in  the  order  of  combat.  The  shot  is  taken 
on the same turn in the order of combat on the following 
round. If no other actions are taken before the shot is fired, 
the  attacker  gains  one  bonus  die.  If  the  aiming  character 
takes  damage  or  moves  while  aiming,  the  advantage  of 
aiming is lost. Only one bonus die may be gained by aiming.

Fast-Moving Targets (Penalty die)
A  target  that  is  moving  at  full  speed  (MOV  8  or  more)  is 
hard to hit; apply one penalty die. 

Target Size (Bonus or Penalty die)
Smaller targets are harder to hit. If the target is Build –2 or 
smaller, apply one penalty die.

Larger targets are easier to hit. If the target is Build 4 or 

larger, apply one bonus die. 

Reloading Firearms (possible Penalty die)
It takes one combat round to load two shells into any hand-
gun, rifle or shotgun. Allow one round to exchange a clip. 
Allow two rounds to change a machine gun belt.

In a round, it is possible to put one round in a chamber 

and get that shot off with one penalty die.

Handguns, Multiple Shots (Penalty die)
Many handguns are capable of firing 2 or 3 shots per round. 
Firing  one  shot  allows  for  a  more  careful  aim  and  steadying 
of the weapon. Firing more than one shot places speed above 
accuracy. When firing two or