oreal,  its  passing  nonetheless  feels  like 
the  touch  of  a  slimy,  unhealthy  vapor.  Geiger  counters 
register its presence as a distinctive burst of radiation. With 
today’s light-intensification gear, it shows as a bright patch 
of luminosity. Infrared viewers are useless.

Colours come from the depths of space, where natural 
laws  differ.  Adult  colours  create  embryos,  harmless  three-
inch  spheres  seemingly  empty.  Deposited  on  verdant  soil 
or in shallow waters, the embryo begins to germinate. After 
a  few  days,  the  outer  shell  dissolves  and  the  new  creature, 
which we may term a larva, emerges.

The jellylike larva can grow to great size. As it infiltrates 
the  ecosystem,  local  vegetation  exhibits  a  tremendous  but 
unhealthy growth. Fruit tastes bitter. Insects and animals are 
born deformed. At night, all plant life glows with the colour, 
and the vegetation begins to twist and writhe, as though in a 
strong wind. Even humans shine with the spectral light. Af-
ter a few months, the larva transforms into a young colour.
It now makes brief trips from its lair to feed, and begins 
to  drain  the  life  force  from  the  area  previously  affected 
by the larva. When it drains enough energy, it departs the 
planet for space and adulthood. In so maturing, the colour 
may drain life force from an area of five acres or so if rich in 
life, or perhaps 10-20 acres of moor or grassland. The area 
drained is ruined thereafter, and no plant can grow.

Bright light inhibits a colour. It spends daylight hours in 
dark, cool hideaways, preferably underwater: cisterns, wells, 
lakes, reservoirs, and oceans are all suitable.

SPECIAL POWERS 

Disintegrate: A colour can focus its energies to disintegrate 
a  hole  through  almost  any  material.  This  ability  is  used 
primarily to excavate a lair underground. The same effort to 
melt a cubic foot of titanium removes several cubic yards of 
pinewood. The sides of the hole appear melted, but no heat 
is generated.

Solidify:  A  colour  can  concentrate  and  solidify  a  part  of 
itself. That part becomes translucent. It can then manipulate 
objects.

Colour Out of Space

averages 
15  
N/A 
equal to POW
95  
70  
50*  

COLOURS OUT OF SPACE, Life-force feeders
rolls
char. 
STR 
(1D6 × 5) per 50 POW or fraction thereof
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
*Base amount, which then increases as a colour feeds.
HP: N/A
Average Damage Bonus: N/A
Average Build: 0
Average Magic Points: 10*
Move: 12 pouring/20 flying 

(2D6+12 ×5)
(4D6 ×5) 
(2D6 ×5) 

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Since a colour is so efficient an attacker, Keepers may wish to allow 
investigators  to  see  it  coming,  allowing  Spot  Hidden  rolls  to 
detect its slight glow or to notice a sudden presence of ozone. 
Colours  lack  any  recognized  Fighting  skill  and  cannot  be 
harmed by normal means.

Characteristic Drain: When the colour is feeding, the victim must 
make an opposed POW roll. If the colour wins, it permanently 
drains  1D10  points  each  of  STR,  CON,  POW,  DEX,  and APP 
from  the  victim,  and  costs  him  or  her  1D6  hit  points  as  well. 
Each point of POW so drained increases the colour’s POW. The 
victim is aware of a sucking, burning