 percentiles in the skill. Instead, points in 
Cthulhu Mythos are gained by encounters with the Mythos 
that result in insanity, by insane insights into the 
true nature of the universe, and by reading 
forbidden  books  and  other  Mythos 
writings. A  character’s  Sanity  may 
never  be  higher  than  99  minus 
his  or  her  Cthulhu  Mythos 
skill.  As  Cthulhu  Mythos 
points  proliferate, 
they 
crowd  out  Sanity  points, 
and  leave  the  investigator 
vulnerable. 

Whenever 

spoor  or 
other  evidence  of  Mythos 
monsters  is  found,  a  suc-
cessful roll against this skill 
allows  the  investigator  to 
identify  the  entity,  deduce 
something about its behavior 
or  guess  at  some  property  it 
may possess. A successful Cthul-
hu Mythos roll might also allow an 
investigator  to  remember  some  fact 
concerning the Mythos, identify a spell by 
seeing it cast, remember that a particular spell or 
piece of information may be found in a particular Mythos 
tome, or achieve some other task. The Cthulhu Mythos skill 
may also be used to manifest magical ‘spell-like’ effects.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
This skill begins at zero and often remains relatively low. The 
vast majority of skill rolls will be made at regular difficulty. 
i  Regular difficulty: to correctly identify a mythos en-
tity based upon secondary evidence (spoor, wounds, 
firsthand accounts).

i  Hard  difficulty:  to  identify  a  mythos  entity  based 
upon  rumors,  legends  or  minimal  evidence;  to 
identify  a  possible  vulnerability  or  knowledge  that 
grants some minor advantage over a mythos entity 
after thorough research and firsthand experience.

Pushing examples: getting closer to the creature for a better 
view; consulting dread tomes, or lore of humans (or other-

61 

chapter 4: skillswise) possessing specialist knowledge; conducting an autopsy 
to learn more; reading aloud as you retrace the strange cryp-
tograms.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  get  too 
close,  exposing  oneself  to  harm  or  suspicion;  unwittingly 
read aloud a passage from a tome that activates a summon-
ing spell; accidentally corrupt or destroy the evidence being 
studied.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
experiences  a  vision  or  revelation  that  reveals  new  truths 
about the Cthulhu Mythos, akin to an insane insight (with 
possible Cthulhu Mythos skill gain and/or associated Sanity 
loss)—see Insane Insight, page 169.

Demolitions (01%) [Uncommon]
With  this  skill  the  user  is  familiar  in  the  safe  use  of  dem-
olitions,  including  setting  and  defusing  explosive  charges. 
Mines and similar devices are designed to be easy to set (no 
roll required) and more difficult to remove or defuse. 

This skill also encompasses military-grade demolitions 

(anti-personnel mines, plastique, etc.)

Given enough time and resources, those proficient may 
rig charges to demolish a building, clear a blocked tunnel, 
and repurpose explosive devises (such as constructing low-
yield charges, booby-traps, and so on).

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: to defuse an explosive device. To 
know where to place charges for greatest effect when 
destroying a bridge or building.

i  Hard  difficulty:  to  defuse  an  explosive  device  in 

limited time.

Pushing examples: taking until the very last second to de-
fuse the bomb; double-checking all the circuits/connections 
by hand