 be opposed 
by the Stealth of the target.

i  Regular difficulty: understand the spoken commu-
nication  of  a  person  who  is  in  clear  sight  and  in 
relatively close proximity.

i  Hard  difficulty:  determine  the  spoken  commu-
nication  of  a  person  whose  mouth  is  occasionally 
obscured  and/or  is  some  distance  away  (e.g.  in  a 
large crowd of people).

Pushing examples: putting yourself in an obvious position 
and staring unsubtly at the target(s); filming the target (and 
thus likely to be observed filming the target).

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll:  the  target 
becomes  aware  that  you  are  watching  them  intently,  and 
takes  offense  and  confronts  you;  the  drunken  man  across 
the bar is angered, mistakenly thinking that you are looking 
at  him,  and  punches  you;  you  are  so  intent  on  the  target 
that  you  miss  what  is  happening  in  your  close  proximity 
(someone steals your case, or you walk into a lamp post).

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, there is plen-
ty of scope for imagining all manner of strange and bizarre 
things being said.

Ride (05%)
This  skill  is  intended  to  apply  to  saddle  horses,  donkeys, 
or mules, and grants knowledge of basic care of the riding 
animal, riding gear, and how to handle the steed at a gallop 
or on difficult terrain. Should a steed unexpectedly rear or 
stumble, the rider’s chance of remaining mounted equals his 
or  her  Ride  skill.  Riding  side-saddle  increases  the  level  of 
difficulty by one level. An unfamiliar mount (such as a cam-
el)  might  be  ridden  successfully,  but  the  level  of  difficulty 
would be higher.

If an investigator falls from a mount, either because the 
animal  has  collapsed,  fallen  or  died  (or  because  a  pushed 
Ride roll failed), at least 1D6 hit points are lost in the acci-
dent—although a Jump roll can negate this loss.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Basic  animal  handling  or  riding  a  mount  at  walking  pace 
does not require a ride roll.

i  Regular  difficulty:  riding  at  speed;  holding  onto  a 

scared mount.

i  Hard difficulty: riding a mount at speed in rough, 
unfamiliar  terrain  where  weather  conditions  are 
poor  (e.g.  a  heavily  wooded  forest  at  night  in  the 
pouring rain).

Pushing examples: whipping or pushing the mount aggres-
sively—perhaps  forcing  a  horse  to  jump  a  ravine  or  high 
ditch;  taking  the  risk  of  keeping  your  mount  rather  than 
jumping clear as trouble approaches.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  rider  is 
thrown  from  mount  and  takes  falling  damage;  mount  is 
injured; rider’s foot is entangled in the mount’s bridle and 
the rider ends up being dragged for some distance.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 

becomes obsessed with the animal.

Science (Specializations) (01%)
Practical  and  theoretical  ability  with  a  science  specialty 
would  suggest  some  degree  of  formalized  education  and 
training, although a well-read amateur scientist may also be 
a possibility. Understanding and scope is limited by the era 

73 

chapter 4: skills74 

Call of Cthulhuof play. You may spend skill points to purchase any skill spe-
cialization