 an investiga-
tor that they may cease to have any useful relevance. They 
are included only to give a sense of scale and completeness. 
As with monsters, these values may be raised or lowered ac-
cording to the scenario and the Keeper’s requirements.

Remember  that  a  roll  is  not  permitted  if  an  opposing 
characteristic exceeds that of an investigator by 100 or more.
This will often be the case with deities. 

Note, though, that these deities are not omnipotent and 
that  many  can  be  physically  assaulted  and  driven  back  (if 
not  killed),  as  happens  to  Great  Cthulhu  in  the  story  The 
Call of Cthulhu.

Dodge skill: When would a god need to dodge an inves-

tigator? The Dodge skill has been omitted from gods. 

Outnumbered  bonus:  This  is  never  granted  when  in 

combat with a deity.

When Facing a God
A god is going to regard an investigator as a human might 
regard an insect. Do you know the name of a particular ant 
that lives in your garden? Does an ant have the intellect or 
power to affect you? You might flick an insect away if it lands 
on you, but would you hunt it down? 

When humans are in the presence of a god it is unlikely 
that the god will even notice them. Perhaps it would tread 
on them as we might tread on an ant.

Abhoth
He descried…in the pool a grayish, horrid mass that nearly 
choked it from rim to rim. Here, it seemed, was the ultimate 
source of all miscreation and abomination. For the gray mass 
quobbed and quivered, and swelled perpetually; and from it, 
in manifold fission, were spawned the anatomies that crept 
away on every side through the grotto.

—Clark Ashton Smith, The Seven Geases

Manifestly not native to this planet, Abhoth’s protean form 
and cynical mind imply relation to Tsathoggua. The black 
caverns wherein it dwells and which it never leaves may well 
be  part  of  N’Kai,  an  underground  world  beneath  North 
America. Some reports place these caverns directly beneath 
the New England village of Dunwich.

Cult
Abhoth  has  no  known  human  worshipers.  Underground 
horrors or Abhoth’s own spawn may worship it.

Other Characteristics
Obscene  monsters  constantly  form  in  the  grey  mass  and 
crawl away from their parent. Abhoth’s tentacles and limbs 
grasp  many  offspring  and  devour  them  again,  returning 
them  to  the  primal  mass,  but  more  manage  to  escape.  If 
someone  nears  Abhoth,  the  various  monstrous  spawn, 
which continually detach from its body, become more nu-
merous, and these may harry or attack investigators. 

Spawn  of  Abhoth  are  manifold  and  varied  in  appear-
ance; particulars are best left to the Keeper. Its spawn are no 
larger than SIZ 5 to 90 (3D6 x 5), at least at first—after a year 
or so of feeding and growing, a spawn may be of any size.

Abhoth

310 

Call of Cthulhuious  elder  spells—a  dangerous  approach,  however,  for  the 
spider-god hates leaving its eternal work of spinning. 

The children of Atlach-Nacha in the Dreamlands—called 

the Leng Spiders—are known to worship Atlach-Nacha.

Other Characteristics
Whoever  stumbles 
into  Atlach-Nacha’s  web  becomes 
trapped.  The  web  has  STR  150  against  which  any  victim 
must roll to escape. In an hour or a day, Atlach-Nacha ap-
pears to dispose of the captive.

The 