 1 movement action, which will reduce its number of actions next round to 1. 
As a reminder, a note is made to the car’s marker on the Keeper’s track:

Hazards:

truck

Police 2 (-1)

P1, the other police car, can see Harvey getting away and accelerates, choosing to move 3 locations with its first movement 
action. The other police car (P2) and truck still present a hazard, especially as some other vehicles have stopped around 
them. Furthermore, because it is accelerating, the police car must take a penalty die when rolling to negotiate the hazard. 
Police car P1 sounds its siren and, with a successful Drive Auto roll, it speeds through. Harvey is now only 2 locations 
ahead, so with its second movement action the police car moves on 2 locations to draw level with Harvey.

Hazards:

End of the Round:

truck

Police 2 (-1)

The Keeper called for the sudden hazard during that round. On the following round a player may choose to do so. The 
Keeper is unable to call for another sudden hazard until after the players do so.

jam

Harvey
Police 1

jam

Harvey
Police 1

The  listed  MOV  speeds  for  vehicles  are  relatively  low, 
only  a  few  points  above  those  of  a  pedestrian.  Of  course, 
vehicles can travel much faster than pedestrians. A vehicle 
has  the  option  of  accelerating;  any  one  of  its  movement 
actions can be spent to travel multiple locations. Travelling 
at higher speeds has its downside of course, making hazards 
more difficult to negotiate.

G  As normal, a driver can use 1 movement action to 

move 1 location. 

G  A driver can elect to move 2 or 3 locations with one 
movement  action.  Any  hazards  encountered  have 
one penalty die applied to the skill rolls.

G  A driver can elect to move 4 or 5 locations with one 
movement  action.  Any  hazards  encountered  have 
two penalty dice applied to the skill rolls.

The increase in speed must be announced prior to mov-
ing.  Just  as  in  real  life,  driving  at  speed  is  less  risky  if  one 
has a good view of what lies on the road ahead. How far a 
driver can see at any time is wholly dependent on the situ-
ation and environment in which the chase is taking place. 
In a crowded city, one might only be able to see a couple of 
locations ahead (1D3 if you wish to determine it randomly); 
in the suburbs one can see several locations ahead (1D6 if 
you wish to determine it randomly), and in the country, on 
a straight road, one might see a considerable distance (1D10 
locations if you wish to determine it randomly). The Keeper 

140 

Call of CthulhuHarvey is being chased by the police.

may  not  have  determined  what  these  upcoming  locations 
are, and should do so as required.

Once a decision has been made to accelerate and travel 
a number of locations on one movement action, it cannot 
be retracted; the vehicle will travel the full distance (2, 3, 4 
or 5 locations) or until it fails a hazard roll. If a hazard roll 
is  failed,  the  outcome  is  resolved,  after  which  any  further 
movement must be paid for and started afresh.

Any  penalty  dice  for  acceleration  should  be  applied  to 
hazards, but usually not when breaking through barriers, for 
which increased speed can be beneficial.

This increased speed can be used multiple times in one 
chase round. By putting the pedal to the metal, a car with 4 
movement  actions  could  potentially  move  20  locations  in 
one chase round.

Escaping the Pursuer
The pursuer can continue chasing the fleeing character so 
long as their location or direction of travel can be identified. 
Each  chase  is  unique,  with  its  own  string