 
linked. You may decide to have crucifixes burn the flesh of 
the undead in a 1970s vampire scenario only to have such 
things mocked and without value in a modern-day encoun-
ter with the Mythos. If the stories are not linked (i.e. use a 
different set of characters) then no consistency is required.
The use of traditional monsters within games also pro-
vides  Keepers  with  the  option  of  inserting  "red  herrings" 
into  the  story  or  ensuring  that  games  don’t  become  stale 
as the investigators face yet another Mythos monster, week 
after  week.  Blending  traditional  and  Mythos  monsters 
allows Keepers to create unique and challenging mysteries 
where the players may think they know what they face, only 
to  discover  some  new  hybrid  horror  that  is  all  the  more 
challenging and frightening.

Ghost
Each  ghost  should  be  crafted  by  the  Keeper  to  fit  the  cir-
cumstances  of  the  scenario.  Ghosts  generally  possess  only 
INT and POW, appearing as dim, misty forms. They haunt 

332 

Call of CthulhuGhost

certain locations or specific objects (such as a book, 
ship, or automobile).

Ghosts may or may not be vulnerable to magic 

or to exorcism. Ghosts especially seem to haunt 
locations in order to communicate the awfulness 
that  prompted  their  formation.  Sometimes  a 
ghost gives clues or instructions, which, if carried 
out, let the anxious shade dissolve and find peace. 
Though  all  ghosts  are  terrifying,  some  are  more 
loathsome  than  others;  a  1D8  Sanity  point  loss 
should be the maximum loss for seeing a ghost.

Special Powers
For a ghost’s attack, use an opposed POW roll. As this 
happens, the ghost may be glimpsed as clawing at, en-
veloping, or otherwise physically attacking the target.

If  the  character  fails  the  opposed  POW  roll,  the 
character  loses  2D10  POW.  If  the  character  can  over-
come the ghost, he or she causes the ghost to lose 2D10 
POW. Any points of POW lost are forfeit. Ghosts of greater 
strength may drain 3D10 POW or more from a victim in a 
single combat round, but such potent entities still lose only 
2D10 POW if overcome by the victim in a particular round. 
It is up to the Keeper to determine how a ghost can be 

laid to rest. Some possibilities include:

i  Locating the source of attachment for the ghost and 

destroying it.

i  Locating the physical remains of the ghost and salt-

ing and burning them.

i  Exorcising  the  ghost  (this  might  include  opposed 

POW rolls).

i  Enabling the ghost to fulfill its mission (preventing 
the death of a loved one, resolving unfinished busi-
ness, etc.)

Some  ghosts  can  manipulate  the  environment  around 
them,  causing  pots  to  fly  off  shelves,  doors  to  open  and 
telephones  to  ring—the  infamous  poltergeist.  More  pow-
erful  poltergeists  may  cause  physical  harm  to  the  unwary 
by attacking with thrown items. In such instances, 
investigators  should  use  the  Dodge  skill  to  avoid 
being hit and perhaps look for alternative means to 
calm or expel the angry spirit.

Individually crafted ghosts are good sources of 
spooky scenarios. Entire campaigns can be devoted 
to  the  study  of  and  exorcism  of  ghosts.  Books  to 
read  as  sources  for  ideas  about  ghosts  include 
The  Haunting  of  Hill  House  (both  the  novel  and 
the  