 a few bullet 
points and relationships to other 
characters should suffice. 

spies,  religious  fanatics,  drug  smugglers,  slavers,  grasping 
entrepreneurs,  venal  labor  bosses,  terrorists,  movie  stars, 
nefarious  politicians,  and  piratical  sea  captains  are  also 
available. An  occasional  scenario  with  dangers  originating 
from this (mundane) world might divert your players, but 
keep in mind that the main theme of the game is the inves-
tigators’ struggle against the Cthulhu Mythos. 

Within  each  scenario  you  prepare,  sprinkle  additional 
information  that  relates  to  the  “big  picture”—the  main 
plot and what is really happening in the background. As the 
investigators  work  through  the  scenarios,  these  disparate 
pieces  of  information  should  begin  to  form  connections, 
driving the investigators to pursue new lines of enquiry and 
leading them ever deeper into the main plot until they reach 
a point of realization as to what is really going on and who 
the  real  enemy  is.  This  point  of  realization  from  various 
disassociated clues should prepare the investigators for their 
biggest challenge and the climax of the campaign.

Chaosium  has  published  a  number  of  campaigns  for 
Call  of  Cthulhu,  including  Horror  on  the  Orient  Express 
and  The  Masks  of  Nyarlathotep.  If  you  are  you  new  to  the 
concept of campaigns then reading (and playing!) through 
a  published  campaign  will  give  you  a  good  grasp  of  how 
individual scenarios can be linked to form a campaign.

In one scenario, papers found in the old Starry Wis-
dom cult chapel in Boston could mention the Esoteric 
Order of Dagon. Later, in another scenario, investiga-
tions of swamp cults in Louisiana could unearth con-
nections to a master cult in New England, centered in 
Innsmouth, also called the Esoteric Order of Dagon.

Level of Detail
We’ve  looked  at  how  to  structure  linear  and  non-linear 
scenarios  and  campaigns,  but  what  should  a  finished  sce-
nario look like? The scenarios at the back of this book are 
by  different  authors,  each  with  their  own  style.  However, 
these are of course published scenarios and each has had to 
meet  certain  requirements  and  standards  that  may  not  be 
required for the homegrown scenario. 

Just as there is no single way to start when writing a sce-
nario, there is no prescribed end product. Compare creating 
a  scenario  with  making  a  speech. When  making  a  speech, 
some people are able to make it up on the spot with little or 
no preparation, while others make a few notes to improvise 
around and still others write the whole thing out word for 
word. These various levels of preparation can work equally 
well—there is no right or wrong here. The important thing 
is to know what level of detail you personally require. 

If you are writing a scenario, it might be no more than 
a  handful  of  notes.  If  you  are  new  to  running  games,  it  is 
unlikely  that  you  will  feel  confident  enough  to  use  this 
approach  initially.  If  used  successfully,  the  results  of  the 
"notes" approach can prove highly rewarding as the low level 
of preparation encourages greater improvisation, leading to 
more creative and unpredictable play. 

How to Use a Published Scenario
The great thing about a published scenario is that the work 
has been done for you and lots of detailed background and 
setting  material  is  provided  for  you  to  use.  Depending  on 
how you approach it