  equiva-
lent of mental first aid and is a world removed from real-life 
medical care for mental illness. 

While in game terms, temporary and indefinite insanity 
can be cured, permanent insanity is impervious to psycho-
analysis. Participation is impossible when the investigator’s 
mind is in such disarray.

Therapy can also be used to remove a phobia or mania. 
At  the  end  of  a  month  the  analyst  rolls  for  success  in  the 
same manner as detailed above. If successful, the investiga-
tor then makes a Sanity roll. If both rolls are successful the 
phobia or mania is cured and erased from the investigator’s 
backstory.  This  benefit  replaces  the  Sanity  point  gain  and 
no  such  points  are  awarded.  Failure  of  either  of  the  rolls 
bestows no benefit. Fumbling either of the rolls results in a 
loss of 1D6 Sanity points (as above).

4. Self-help: an investigator may choose to spend time with 
one  entry  listed  in  their  backstory  which  could  act  as  a 
form of psychological support; clearly this does not include 

Seeing the shriveled body of a friend is likely to call for a Sanity roll.

167 

chapter 8: sanity168 

Call of Cthulhuphobias, manias, wounds or anything to do with the Cthul-
hu  Mythos.  This  may  be  done  during  downtime  between 
adventures or during the investigator development phase. 

The player should go into some detail about what their 
investigator is doing to seek healing or redemption. The ac-
tions should be thematically appropriate to their backstory; 
perhaps the investigator is going on a religious retreat or a 
holiday with a loved one. 

The player then makes a Sanity roll. Keeper and players are 
encouraged to roleplay the scene to the point where it comes to 
a head, and then make the Sanity roll, roleplaying the outcome. 
If the roll is successful, the investigator gains 1D6 Sanity points. 
If it is unsuccessful, 1 Sanity point is lost, and the Keeper and 
player should revise that aspect of the investigator’s backstory 
in  some  way  to  reflect  the  failure.  Thus  the  religious  retreat 
might result in a complete loss of religious faith, or a family 
holiday might result in separation or divorce. 

Each  investigator  begins  the  game  with  one  backstory 
entry that is especially important to them: this is their “key 
connection”. If the player chooses to use their investigator’s 
key connection, they are granted a bonus die when making 
their Sanity roll. In addition to the 1D6 Sanity points gained 
for a successful Sanity roll, the investigator will recover from 
any indefinite insanity. If the Sanity roll is failed, that aspect 
of the investigator’s backstory is revised, and that investiga-
tor no longer has a key connection. 

In time, the investigator may form a new key connection. 
During a future investigator development phase, a backsto-
ry aspect may be converted into a new key connection if the 
player successfully uses the “self-help” option to regain San-
ity points via that connection. Alternatively, any Sanity roll 
of 01 (critical success) allows for the immediate nomination 
of a new key connection to replace the one that was lost.

Note: Current Sanity points can never increase above an 
investigator’s maximum Sanity (99–Cthulhu Mythos skill). 

Getting Used to the  
Awfulness 
At some point, constant exposure to the same Mythos crea-
ture has no further effect—the monster is no longer a living 
nightmare, but rather another obstacle in the investigator’s 
path. Once an investigator has lost as many Sanity points for 
seeing a particular sort of monster as the maximum possible 
Sanity point loss for that monster, he or she should not lose 
more Sanity points for a reasonable interval. For instance, 
no  investigator  could  lose  more  than  6  Sanity  points  for 
encount