 round:Someone 
administers successful First Aid?

No

Pass CON
Roll

CON roll at end of the round after 
falling unconscious and every round 
thereafter; failure means death.

Major Wound Healing
Make a CON roll at the end of each week.
Fail: No healing.
Success: Heal 1D3 hit points.
Extreme Success: Heal 2D3 hit points
and erase Major Wound.
Bonus die if well cared-for (Medicine roll).
Bonus die if patient is resting
or has a good environment.
Penalty die if conditions are poor.

122 

CON roll at end 
of every hour

Healing begins: Uncheck “dying” box
and gain +1D3 hit points.
 Make a Major Wound
Recovery roll at the end of each week.

Call of CthulhuHarvey  is  recovering  in  hospital  after  almost  dying 
(see the example for Dying above). He has the best of 
care and complete rest, so gains two bonus dice to his 
recovery  roll. This  roll  gives  a  Hard  success,  granting 
the recovery of 3 hit points (1D3). Harvey is now well 
enough  to  return  home.  He  does  some  light  work  on 
the second week, (thus he has not rested) and, as he is 
no longer under medical care, his recovery roll gets no 
bonus dice. This time he rolls a failure; no recovery. On 
the third week he realizes that he needs to take it easy 
and asks a friendly nurse to look in on him as he rests 
in bed; this grants a bonus die. A Medicine roll is made 
for the nurse’s care (a success), and so he gains a second 
Bonus die. He rolls an Extreme success on his recovery 
roll at the end of week three. He recovers another 5 hit 
points (2D3) and erases the major wound marker. His 
current hit points now stand at 8. He regains one more 
hit point each day, and in seven more days he is fully 
healed to his maximum of 15 hit points.
  Another  example:  Cecil  is  on  an  expedition  is  the 
jungles of South America. He suffers a major wound 
during a fight, receiving a terrible bite to this left arm. 
A friend administers First Aid, but there is nowhere 
for  Cecil  to  rest  properly  and,  anyway,  he  and  his 
companions  are  working  to  a  deadline  to  prevent  a 
cult summoning their dark god. At the end of a week 
he  attempts  his  recovery  roll  with  one  penalty  die, 
rolling a fumble. The Keeper decides the wound has 
become  infected  and  that  the  lower  arm  is  swollen 
and painful; medical treatment is required promptly 
or the infection may kill him. Cecil looks at his com-
panions; one of them is going to have to attempt an 
amputation!

Unconsciousness and Death
Call  of  Cthulhu  is  a  horror  game  and  sometimes  it  may 
be  more  terrifying  for  an  investigator  to  stay  conscious;  if 
the Keeper wishes, a character may be incapacitated rather 
than  fully  unconscious.  Equally,  final  death  does  not  have 
to occur instantaneously, and the light in a character’s eyes 
might not go out until after a particularly dramatic moment 
or once their final words have been uttered (at the Keeper’s 
discretion).

Other Forms of Damage
Often the Keeper will be forced to make a judgment for the 
amount of damage caused by some random event such as 
dropping a TV set on someone’s foot, running into a door-
post, or falling down an elevator shaft. Whatever the cause, 
consider  the  likely  injury  and  rate  it  against  the  left-hand 
column on Table III: Other Forms of Damage.

  Don’t feel compelled to limit yourself to the amounts 
of