 Cobb family enters into an agreement with the Miskatonic 
University to assay and collate the Hobbhouse papers and library. Pro-
fessor Charles Leiter successfully lobbies for control of the project at the 
History Faculty.
Late August: Leiter, in need of money after a disastrous gambling trip 
to Atlantic City, spreads the word through his underworld connections 
of the sale of the Arkham Witch Trial Papers.
Early September: Leiter starts to receive interest in what he is offering, 
but not from his usual contacts; vast sums are offered by some, threats 
by others.
September 5th:  Leiter passes the Arkham Witch Trial Papers to Cecil 
Hunter so that he can begin creating forgeries.
September 9th:  Leiter first believes he is being followed.
September 11th: Leiter’s  cottage  is  broken  into  and  ransacked  (by 
Flinders) while he is at work.
September 12th: Leiter updates his cottage’s security by changing the 
locks and adding bolts to doors and windows. 
September  16th:  Cecil  Hunter,  Leiter’s  artist/forger,  goes  mad  while 
trying to copy the Papers.
September 17th: Leiter has Hunter committed to Arkham Sanitarium. 
Leiter, on returning to Hunter’s residence to collect the original Arkham 
Witch  Trial  Papers  discovers  they  are  missing—mysteriously  stolen 
(the Keeper decides who has stolen the papers).
September 18th: Leiter narrowly avoids death when falling tiles from a 
faculty building roof miss him by inches (see Signs of Passage).
September 23rd: Leiter makes up his mind to flee and goes to his of-
fice late at night to destroy any incriminating papers and take anything 
portable of value. The Horror manifests and attacks him behind closed 
doors and he is horrifically slain.
September  24th:  Leiter’s  body  is  found  by  one  of  his  grad-students, 
Emilia Court. Suspicious circumstances quickly come to light, however 
the police are fobbed-off by Dean Fallon. The Arkham Witch Trial Papers 
are discovered to be missing. A death certificate for "massive and sudden 
heart failure" is written out by Doctor John Wheatcroft, a physician at the 
Miskatonic’s Medical School, who takes charge of Leiter’s corpse.    
October 1st: With increasingly terse enquiries being made by the Cobb 
family, strange sorts making inquiries about the dead man, and rumors 
of  foul  play  abroad  on  campus,  Dean  Fallon  seeks  outside  help.  The 
investigators are called in—the scenario begins.
Future  Events:  October  (various  dates  as  the  Keeper  desires)–in  an 
increasingly violent series of manifestations, the Horror begins to hunt 
down  anybody  who  has  had  close  contact  with  the  papers,  the  fre-
quency of the manifestations increasing rapidly.

366 

Call of Cthulhuroleplay through their conversations with the different char-
acters, as this will be far more fun than simply rolling dice.

Each  of  the  main  NPCs  has  been  given  roleplaying 
hooks. The hooks provide you with possible ways to engage 
the NPC with the investigators and to complicate the inves-
tigator’s lives.

Finally, the information presented is intended first and 
foremost as a skeleton for the Keeper to flesh out as desired, 
adding more detail as he or she wishes—all to make the best 
use of the scenario for their own game and to suit their own 
tastes and that of the players. 

Expansion Sources
Keepers  may  find  the  Map  of  Arkham  (see  page 
428)  useful  in  determining  locations  of  the  various 
non-player characters who live outside of Miskatonic 
University.  In  addition,  the  Chaosium  publications 
H.P.  Lovecraft’s  Arkham,  and  Miskatonic  University 
would  be