 powder  requires  the 
dust from an Egyptian mummy at least 2,000 years old; each 
such mummy suffices for three doses of the magic dust. The 
ingredients also include frankincense, sulfur, and saltpeter. 
An incantation must be said over the dust while it is being 
sprinkled. 

Sprinkled over a being not of this Earth, the entity loses 
1D20  hit  points  per  dose.  It  takes  one  round  to  apply  a 
dose. The powder works only on extraterrestrial and other 
planar beings, thus the powder would harm a dimensional 
shambler, Yog-Sothoth  or  a  mi-go,  but  is  useless  against  a 
shoggoth or a deep one.

Alternative  names:  The  Egyptian  Powder,  Protection  of 

the Dead.

Death Spell
Cost: 24 magic points; 3D10 Sanity points
Casting time: 1D3 rounds

Reserved for only the most foul of sorcerers, this spell causes 
the bewildered victim to burst into flame. The target must be 
within ten yards of the caster. For the spell to take effect the 
caster must succeed in an opposed POW roll with the target 
during  each  round  of  concentration. After  1D3  rounds  of 
concentration, the victim’s skin forms large blisters and he 
or  she  loses  1D3  hit  points.  In  the  next  round,  the  victim 
loses an additional 1D6 hit points. On the third round, the 
victim bursts into flames, losing 1D10 hit points then and 
each round thereafter. The stench of burning hair and flesh 
is  overwhelming  (all  witnesses  should  make  SAN  rolls  or 
lose  1/1D6  SAN).  It  is  impossible  to  render  aid,  since  the 
horrified victim burns from the inside out.

Alternative  names:  Ye  Dreadful  Pricking,  The  Curse  of 

Fiery Doom, Cthugha’s Embrace.

Deeper Version
Rather  than  cause  the  victim  to  suffer  the  effects  of 
this  spell  in  near  instantaneous  fashion,  the  caster 
may elect to prolong the spell over a course of days 
to enhance the victim’s suffering. The caster spends 
34  magic  points  in  casting  this  version  of  the  spell. 
The  caster  does  not  need  to  be  physically  near  the 
victim—instead the caster must possess a piece of the 
victim (hair, nail clipping, or skin, etc.), allowing the 
spell to be cast from any distance. The spell begins on 
the following day of casting and lasts for 7 days. For 
the spell to take effect, an opposed POW roll must be 
made between the caster and the target each day. On 
the first day, the victim suffers a 2 hit point wound, 
then a 4 hit point wound on the second day. There-
after,  the  wound  size  increases  by  2  hit  points  each 
day (6, 8, 10, 12, 14). An equal amount of Sanity is 
lost each day as the target begins to realize his or her 
terrible fate. On the day that hit points are reduced to 
zero, the victim’s body is consumed in a ball of flame.

Dominate
Cost: 1 magic point; 1 Sanity point
Casting time: Instantaneous 

Bends the will of the target to that of the caster. For the spell 
to take effect the caster must succeed in an opposed POW 
roll with the target. If successful, the target obeys the com-
mands of the caster without exception until the next combat 
round concludes.

254 

Call of CthulhuElder Sign
Cost: 10 POW
Casting time: 1 hour

Enchant Book
Cost: variable POW; 