 Spells: same as Al Azif.

Latin, translated by Olaus Wormius, 1228 AD
First circulated in manuscript form, then printed in Germa-
ny (late 15th century) as a black-letter folio. A second, nearly 
identical  edition  was  published  in  Spain  in  the  early  17th 
century. One copy of the former edition and four copies of 
the latter are known to exist. 

Sanity Loss: 2D10
Cthulhu Mythos: +5/+11 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 48
Study: 66 weeks 
Suggested Spells: same as Al Azif.

Necronomicon

English, translated by Dr. John Dee, 1586
An accurate but expurgated version of the Greek translation. 
Never printed; exists in bound manuscript form only. Three 
nearly-complete copies are known. 

Sanity Loss: 2D10
Cthulhu Mythos: +5/+10 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 45 
Study: 50 weeks
Suggested  Spells:  Call  Forth  the  Angel  Yazrael  (Call/
Dismiss  Yog-Sothoth),  Call  Forth  the  Lord  of  the 
Pit  (Call/Dismiss  Nyogtha),  Command  the  Angel 
Dilyah (Summon/Bind Servitor of the Outer Gods), 
Consult Dark Servant (Contact Ghoul), Consult Ye 
Spirit of the Earth (Contact Nyarlathotep), Domi-
nate, Dust of Suleiman, Elder Sign, Powder of Ibn-
Ghazi, Voorish Sign.

Sussex Manuscript

English, translated by Baron Frederic, 1597 
A  muddled,  incomplete  translation  of  the  Latin  Necro-
nomicon, printed in Sussex, England, in an octavo edition. 
Properly known as the Cultus Maleficarum. 

Sanity Loss: 1D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +2/+5 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 21
Study: 36 weeks 
Suggested Spells: same as Al Azif, but possibly danger-

ously flawed in form and intent.

230 

Call of CthulhuThe Necronomicon

Every tome has its own history and the Keeper is invited to 
use this entry regarding the Necronomicon as inspiration for 
his or her own stories of other tomes or similar artifacts.

While  more  ancient  works  are  hinted  at,  in  human  lan-
guages it is the Necronomicon that best relates the reach and 
meaning of the Cthulhu Mythos.

The Necronomicon is encyclopedic and baffling, contain-
ing deep Mythos magic and knowledge, including a chant to 
Yog-Sothoth  which  can  open  the  Way  to  this  world,  infor-
mation on the powder of Ibn-Ghazi, and a description of the 
Voorish Sign. The tome also discusses the nature of existence, 
details many locations and places (some not of this Earth), 
and  provides  grim  descriptions  of  some  Mythos  entities. 
Allusions are definitions, inflections are explanations, wishes 
are proofs, and decoration and design are indistinguishable. 
The vocabulary is as interior as that of a dream. The Necro-
nomicon is the gateway to insanity, the path through which 
humans pass, metamorphose, and emerge unrecognizable.

History 

The original version of the Necronomicon, known as the Kitab 
Al Azif, was written around 730 A.D. in Damascus by the Arab, 
Abdul Al-Hazred (Abd al-Azrad). A student of magic as well as 
an astronomer, poet, philosopher, and scientist, al-Azrad was 
born around 700 A.D. in Sanaa, Yemen. Before composing his 
great work he spent years visiting the ruins of Babylon, the pits 
of Memphis, and the great southern desert of Arabia.

He died in