 direction  or  splitting  up.  If  splitting  up,  decide  which 
pursuers  are  chasing  which  characters/vehicles.  If  you  have 
multiple groups, treat each one as a separate chase.

Speed roll: All participants make a skill roll: CON (if on foot 
or other self-propelled mode) or Drive Auto (for vehicles). 

G If passed: MOV remains unchanged. 
G If an Extreme success: MOV +1. 
G If failed: MOV –1.

Order each group separately in order of MOV.
Fleeing characters/vehicles with a speed greater than any 

of their pursuers may escape completely. 

Pursuers with a speed that is lower than the slowest flee-

ing character are completely out of the chase. 

Cut to the Chase 

Place the pursuers: Place pursuers in order, slowest at the 
rear, others a number of locations ahead equal to their differ-
ence in MOV.

Place  the  fleeing  characters:  Place  the  fleeing  characters/
vehicles in order, slowest at the rear (2 locations ahead of the 
lead  pursuer),  others  a  number  of  locations  ahead  equal  to 
their difference in MOV.

Position hazards and barriers.

Allocate  each  participant  a  number  of  movement  ac-
tions: Every character and vehicle gets one movement action 
by  default.  To  this  is  added  the  difference  between  their 
movement  rating  (MOV)  and  the  movement  rating  of  the 
slowest participant in the chase.

Determine DEX order

Hazards: Make a skill roll to move through a hazard. If the 
skill roll is failed, the Keeper may inflict damage (see Table III: 
Other Forms of Damage, page 124, or Table VI: Vehicular 
Collisions, page 147) and delay (1D3 movement actions).

Cautious  approach  to  hazards:  1  or  2  movement  actions 
may  be  spent  to  buy  1  or  2  bonus  dice  for  the  skill  roll  to 
negotiate a hazard.

Barrier: Either a barrier must be broken down or a skill roll 
must also be made before a character/vehicle can move onto 
the  next  location.  If  appropriate,  the  Keeper  may  wish  to 
inflict damage and delay as for a hazard.

Breaking  down  barriers:  Vehicles  inflict  1D10  damage  for 
each point of their Build. If a vehicle attacks a barrier and fails 
to destroy it, the vehicle is wrecked. If the barrier is destroyed, 
the  vehicle  suffers  an  amount  of  damage  equal  to  half  the 
barrier’s hit points prior to impact.

G Internal door or thin wooden fence: 5 hit points.
G Standard back door: 10 hit points.
G Strong domestic external door: 15 hit points.
G 9” brick wall: 25 hit points.
G Mature tree: 50 hit points.
G Concrete bridge support: 100 hit points.

Attacks:  Cost  1  movement  action  to  initiate  (except  if 
ranged). Resolve as regular combat. 

Vehicles in combat: Substitute Drive Auto for both Fighting 
and Dodge skills. A vehicle can be used as a weapon (1D10 
damage per listed build point). Whenever a vehicle is used to 
inflict damage it also suffers an amount of damage equal to 
half (round down) that which it delivers, but never enough 
to cause it to lose a greater amount of build points than the 
thing which it hit originally possessed. Each full 10 hit points 
of  damage  decreases  a  vehicle’s  build  by  one  point  (round 
down); damage below 10 points is ignored.

Random locations: Roll 1D100:
01-59 = 1 open location
60+ = 1 Regular hazard
85+ = 1 Hard hazard 
96+ = 1 Extreme hazard 

Environment is especially hazardous: add a penalty die