 great consequences when a 
player of an investigator suffering underlying insanity fails 
a Pushed skill roll.

Reality Check Rolls
While  reality  checks  are  only  usually  called  for  on  behalf 
of  insane  investigators,  a  player  might  call  for  one  if  they 
wish to “see through” what they believe to be a hallucination 
or illusion. To perform a reality check, the player makes a 
Sanity roll:

A threat of the Mythos or just a nice old lady?

162 

Call of CthulhuFailure: lose 1 Sanity point. This will immediately induce a 
bout of madness if the investigator is suffering underlying 
insanity. Any delusions are not dispelled. 

Success: the investigator sees through any delusions, and 
the Keeper must describe what the investigator genuinely 
perceives.

On making a successful reality check roll, the investiga-
tor should see things as they really are and will be resistant 
to delusions until losing further Sanity points (thus pre-
venting the Keeper from constantly throwing delusions at 
a player). 

Successful use of the Psychoanalysis skill will allow an 

insane investigator to see a delusion for what it is.

Harvey,  still  suffering  from  underlying  insanity, 
returns to his home. Going out of his back door, he 
finds his neighbor leaning over the garden fence with 
some kind of recording device in his hand, pointed 
at Harvey’s house. The Keeper tells Harvey’s player 
that  Harvey’s  neighbor  is  spying  on  him.  This  is 
a  delusion—in  fact  the  neighbor  is  doing  no  such 
thing.  The  player,  wondering  if  this  is  a  delusion, 
asks for a reality check.

With  a  successful  reality  check  roll,  Harvey  is 
free of his delusion. The Keeper cannot continue the 
delusion  and  must  describe  the  scene  realistically. 
In this case, there was no recording device and the 
neighbor was simply admiring Harvey’s lawn.

If the player chooses to make a reality check roll 
and fails, Harvey will lose 1 Sanity point and suffer 
a  bout  of  madness.  As  he  is  the  only  investigator 
present, the Keeper is free to fast-forward to the point 
where another investigator (or the police) turns up 
to  find  Harvey  coming  out  of  his  own  front  door, 
armed with a shotgun, determined to break into his 
neighbor’s house and interrogate him, or worse.

If the player does not choose to ask for a reality 
check,  the  Keeper  is  free  to  elaborate  on  the  delu-
sion, perhaps stating that Harvey sees his neighbor 
conversing  with  a  ghoul  (actually  the  neighbor’s 
child) on the patio. At this point the player would 
have to either make a Sanity roll for seeing a ghoul 
or  make  a  reality  check  roll.  If  she  succeeds  in  the 
reality check, Harvey will realize there is no ghoul 
and that he was imagining it all. If she fails, Harvey 
will lose a point of Sanity, suffer a bout of madness, 
and terrible things will no doubt ensue.

 Phobia
When exposed to the source of their phobia, or even just 
thinking about it, a character’s symptoms can develop rap-
idly. Within seconds, palpitations, trembling, choking, and 
an uncontrollable anxiety appear. The character feels that 
they must do everything possible to avoid the situation.

Mania
A character with a mania will have a fairly constant euphor-
ic or possibly irritable mood. Symptoms include a general 
increase  in  activity,  garrulousness,  increased  self-esteem 
to  the  point  of  delusion,  decreased  need  for  sleep,  easily 
distracted,  willingness  for  dangerous  or  imprudent  activi-
ties such as reckless driving, hallucinations, delusions,