Alternative  names:  The  Ritual  Symphony  of  the  Inde-

scribable Ones, Recitation of the Maddening Piping. 

Summon Star Vampire: curious rustling sounds are heard 
once  this  invisible  thing  lurks  near.  The  caster  also  needs 
a book in which are written or inscribed the words of the 
spell. If the book is enchanted, the chance for success is in-
creased by 2 percentiles per point of POW within the book. 
This  spell  can  be  cast  only  at  night  under  a  cloudless  sky. 
The creature is invisible save when its veins fill with blood 
from some visible creature.

Alternative names: The Night Call of the Feasting Death, 

Chant of the Bloody Letters.

Separate Binding
Cost: 1 Sanity point
Casting time: 1 round

Binding  and  Summoning  are  two  sides  of  the  same  coin. 
Sometimes  they  are  learned  as  one  spell,  sometimes  not. 
At the Keeper’s discretion the effects may be combined or 
two separate rolls might be asked for, one to summon and a 
second to bind.

If a monster arrives unbound or is come upon unexpect-
edly, it may be bound on the spot. The caster must know the 
Summon/Bind spell for that type of thing and must spend 
a  round  chanting  before  the  thing  can  be  bound.  For  the 
spell  to  take  effect  the  caster  must  succeed  in  an  opposed 

POW roll with the target. Each cast of the binding costs 1 
Sanity point and variable magic points. A binding works on 
only one creature at a time. One option open to the caster 
is to invest a number of magic points equal to one-fifth of 
the summoned creature’s POW to gain a bonus die on the 
opposed POW roll to bind the monster (of course, the caster 
will  not  know  the  POW  of  the  creature,  thus  must  take  a 
gamble on how many magic points to sacrifice).

An attacking creature cannot be bound by the person it 
is fighting; however, it could be bound by a person able to 
hold back from the fray. A creature presently bound cannot 
be  re-bound  until  its  present  command  is  completed.  A 
creature to be bound must be visible to the caster and within 
100  yards.  Binding  requires  an  opposed  roll  and  opposed 
rolls  cannot  be  pushed;  if  the  opposed  roll  is  failed,  the 
caster is in trouble!

Bind  Byakhee:  If  an  enchanted  whistle  is  used,  the  caster 
gains a bonus die on the opposed POW roll. Such a whistle 
may be used again and again.

Alternative names: Obligation of the Steed, Compel the 

Journeyed. 

Bind Dark Young: If the caster uses an enchanted knife to 
kill their victim with certain ritual cuts they gain a bonus die 
to the opposed POW roll.

Alternative names: Entrance the Heart Wood, Command 

the Forest for Thy Bidding.

Bind Dimensional Shambler: If the caster possesses an en-
chanted dagger made from any pure metal such as copper or 
iron they gain one bonus to the opposed POW roll A second 
bonus  die  may  be  gained  if  the  Dimensional  Shambler  is 
exposed to bright sunlight.

Alternative names: The Copper Binding, Entrapment of 

the Searing Light.

Bind  Fire  Vampire:  If  the  caster  stands  within  a  bonfire 
they gain one bonus die to the opposed POW roll. How the 
flames are resisted is up to the caster.

Alternative  names:  Annexation  of  the  Fiery  Devil,  Au-

thority of the Blazing Tongue.

Bind Hunting Horror: The blood sacrifice of a sentient be-
ing is needed. The caster does not perform the sacrifice—the 
hunting horror se