conjecture  that  this  power  manifests  via  a  certain 
internal organ, sometimes known as a "hune." There 
are some who would find great interest in the potential 
applications such an organ could have as a weapon or 
method of transport.

Perhaps  a specimen of this organ resides in some 
forgotten  museum  or  laboratory,  just  waiting  for  an 
unwitting scientist to activate its terrible secrets.

Chthonians

Flowing tentacles and pulpy gray-black, elongated sack of 
a body… no distinguishing features at all other than the 
reaching, groping tentacles. Or was there—yes—a lump in 
the upper body of the thing… a container of sorts for the 
brain, ganglia, or whichever diseased organ governed this 
horror’s loathsome life!
—Brian Lumley, The Burrowers Beneath

These  creatures  are  like  immense  earth-bound  squids,  and 
their  elongated  wormlike  bodies  are  coated  with  slime.  A 
chanting sound accompanies them. These powerful burrow-
ers live more than a thousand years, and are protective of their 
young. A jumble of remarkable properties, chthonians bear 
little resemblance to anything else on this planet. The most 
important individual chthonian is the gigantic Shudde M’ell.
All stages of chthonians communicate by telepathy and 
can thus reach another of their race anywhere in the world, 
and  can  sense  other  minds.  Only  adults  can  telepathically 
control members of other species with this power.

They can tunnel through rock as though it were butter 
and  have  no  need  to  breathe.  Adult  chthonians  can  with-
stand  enormous  temperatures,  up  to  4000°C  (7200°F).  It 
may be that the majority of chthonians live toward the core 
of this planet, and that only outcasts, wanderers, and those 
accidentally caught up in pluming magma explore the cold 
outer  crust  where  man  thrives.  Perhaps  they  migrate  here 
to  give  birth,  since  the  younger  stages  cannot  withstand 
extreme heat. We do not know their motives.

Full adults can cause powerful earthquakes.
Chthonians  are  extremely  susceptible  to  water.  While 
their  slime  coating  protects  them  from  small  amounts  of 
water, general immersion destroys a chthonian. Burrowing, 
these monsters detect significant water by distinguishing the 
relatively  low  echo  profiles  of  water  and  watery  sediment, 
avoiding such areas.

Chthonians are worldwide, even found in basalt under 
the oceans. In western Africa is a mystery city called G’harne, 
which they frequent. They may have been imprisoned there 
once, aeons ago.

The general discussion and initial statistics concern the 
full adult, the last and largest stage (instar) between molts. 
This is the sort which investigators are most likely to meet. A 
closing section compares all six stages, since a nest of young-
er chthonians may be encountered, or a band of chthonians 
with varying age groups could be met with.

SPECIAL POWERS 

Chthonian  telepathic  control:  Chthonians  can  use  te-
lepathy  to  control  humans,  though  they  do  not  often  do 
so unless the target has something they want, such as odd 
spherical mineral formations.

The target may attempt to resist a single chthonian with 
an  opposed  POW  roll.  Overcome,  the  victim  is  bound  to 
the  area  where  psychically  attacked.  At  first  the  target  has 
mobility  of  a  mile  or  so,  but  this  progressively  lessens  as 
the  chthonian  draws  nearer,  until  the  victim  may  not  be 

283 

chapter 