 to take effect the caster must succeed 
in  an  opposed  POW  roll  with  the  target.  Extreme  sugges-
tions  involving  death  or  great  harm  require  a  second  op-
posed POW roll just before the suggestion is implemented.

The  cost  for  the  spell  varies  with  the  suggestion.  For 
ordinary unthreatening suggestions (drop your sword, hand 
over your money and leave, etc.), the cost is 5 magic points 
and 1D3 Sanity points. Riskier suggestions, but not ones an-
tithetical to the target (go to Dunwich, set fire to a building, 
etc.), cost 10 magic points and 2D3 Sanity points. Danger-
ous  or  suicidal  suggestions  (kill  a  companion,  kidnap  the 
President, etc.) cost 15 magic points and 3D3 Sanity points.
If  used  on  an  investigator  the  effects  lasts  for  1  round 
for each point of INT the caster possesses. If the INT of the 
investigator is higher than that of the caster, the caster must 
win  another  POW  roll  every  10  rounds.  When  the  caster 
fails the spell is broken.

Alternative names: Domination of the Will, Master and 
Servant,  Bend  Quarry  to Thy  Power,  Mesmerise,  Bend Will, 
Shake Resolve, Govern Mind, Implant Suggestion.

Mindblast
Cost: 10 magic points; 1D3 Sanity points
Casting time: Instantaneous

The  victim  of  this  spell  suffers  a  terrible  mental  assault, 
causing the loss of 5 Sanity points and inducing temporary 
insanity. For the spell to take effect the caster must succeed 
in an opposed POW roll with the target. 

The  target  is  affected  as  per  the  rules  for  temporary 
insanity, beginning with a bout of madness, and may con-
tinue to suffer from flashbacks and/or nightmares for days 
following. 

Alternative  names:  Curse  of  Enfeeblement,  Wave  of 

Doom, Abyss of the Mind’s Eye.

Mind Exchange
Cost: 10+1D6 magic points; 1D3 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 hour

Allows  the  caster  to  trade  minds  with  another  individual. 
The caster loses 1D3 Sanity points and must expend magic 
points equal to one-fifth of the target’s POW the first time 
the spell is cast. Thereafter, the cost goes down 1 magic point 

per casting until it reaches 1, where it remains. The Sanity 
point cost does not decrease. 

The target must know the spell caster and love or strong-
ly  favor  him  or  her.  If  that  affection  is  somehow  lost,  the 
exchange  can  no  longer  occur.  Fresh  affection  renews  the 
chance. Upon arriving in another’s body, the target loses a 
minimum of 1/1D3 Sanity points.

This spell can be cast at any range. For the spell to take 
effect the caster must succeed in an opposed POW roll with 
the  target,  until  the  magic  point  cost  for  casting  the  spell 
has  been  reduced  to  1,  when  an  opposed  POW  roll  is  no 
longer required and the caster can transfer at will, using only 
a strong mental effort. 

The  spell  caster  cannot  initially  stay  more  than  a  few 
minutes  inside  the  target’s  body,  but  progressively  is  able 
to longer and longer. Once the cost for transfer is 1 magic 
point, he or she can stay there indefinitely.

Alternative  names:  Vice  Versa  Incantation,  Rite  of  Ex-

change, The Cloak of Another’s Flesh.

Mind Transfer
Cost: 10 magic points; 1D10