  for  a  native 

speaker of a foreign language. 

i  To  identify  a  present-day  human  language  (un-
known to the investigator), use a Know roll.
i  To identify an extinct human language, use an Ar-

chaeology or History roll.

i  To identify an alien language, use a Cthulhu Mythos 

or possibly an Occult roll. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Regular conversation, perhaps with pauses for clarification 
(when speaking to a less than fluent foreign speaker) does 
not require a roll for those who are fluent.

i  Regular difficulty: conversation (perhaps at speed); 
written  material  containing  a  few  technical  or  un-
common terms.

i  Hard difficulty: high content of unusual technical terms; 
historically archaic phrases; speaker has unusual dialect.

Pushing examples: taking longer to think through the words 
you want to say; taking long pauses to answer what you have 
been told; referencing other books to make a translation.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: exaggerated 
or loud discussions between investigators and third parties 
alert some enemy faction to the investigators’ intentions; a 
word or phrase is misunderstood (perhaps the meaning is 
reversed); the listener takes offense to an unintentional slur, 
and  they  respond  with  their  fists,  or  turn  everyone  in  the 
neighborhood against you.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
begins to speak in tongues, or imagines that they are using 
the Enochian language.

Language (Own) (EDU%)
When  choosing  this  skill,  the  exact  language  must  be 
specified and written next to the skill. In infancy and early 
childhood, most humans use a single language. The tongue 
chosen by the player for the Own Language automatically 
starts  as  equal  to  the  investigator’s  EDU  characteristic; 
thereafter  the  investigator  understands,  speaks,  reads,  and 
writes at that percentage or higher (if further skill points are 
added during investigator creation).

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Normally  no  skill  roll  is  necessary  to  use  Own  Language. 
Even when technical, archaic, or esoteric terms are used, if 

both parties are sympathetic to each other and there is suf-
ficient time for conversation, most things should be covered 
without a die roll.

If  a  document  is  extremely  difficult  to  read  or  in  an 

archaic dialect, the Keeper may require a roll.

Pushing examples: see Language (Other) skill, above.

Law (05%)
Represents the chance of knowing pertinent law, precedent, 
legal maneuvers or court procedure. The practice of law as 
a  profession  can  lead  to  great  rewards  and  political  office, 
but it requires intense application over many years—a high 
Credit  Rating  is  also  usually  crucial  in  this  regard.  In  the 
United States, the State Bar of a particular state must sanc-
tion one’s practice of law. 

When  in  a  foreign  country  the  level  of  difficulty  may 
be increased when using this skill, unless the character has 
spent many months studying that nation’s legal system. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty level: understanding and utilizing 
the details of a relevant law or legal procedure.
i  Hard difficulty: remembering or understanding an 
obscure legal precedent, or cross-examining a highly 
competent hostile witness.

Pushing  examples:  delaying  to  consider  your  argument; 
explaining in high detail the nuances of the case/situation; 
taking  significant  time  to  conduct  research;  bending  the 
letter of the law to drive your argument.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  misinter-
preting a law or stepping outside of the accepted legal proce-
dure leads you to break the law and