 8 meters in one combat round. If 
sprinting, a character might cover five times that distance, 
but would soon tire.

Hit Points and Physical Injury for 
Non-Player Characters
You  should  use  the  standard  damage  rules  for  non-player 
characters. However, non-player characters are under your 
control.  If  you  decide  that  a  non-player  character  has  a 
heart attack and drops dead on the spot then that is what 
happens,  so  it  follows  that  if  an  investigator  punches  a 
non-player  character,  and  you  decide  that  the  non-player 
character  drops  dead  as  a  result  of  the  attack,  then  that  is 
what  happens. You  don’t  even  have  to  ask  for  a  roll  to  hit 
or  a  damage  roll  on  a  non-player  character  if  you  do  not 
wish to. If an investigator has a non-player character at his 

or her mercy (perhaps a knife held to their throat) and states 
that he or she is killing the non-player character then allow 
this to happen without using dice if you wish. This would of 
course be exceptional; however, it illustrates the point that 
you are only compelled to apply the rules when they directly 
affect an investigator. You can have a ceiling fall and crush a 
non-player character without a roll, but an investigator will 
always get a dice roll—in this case, perhaps to dodge falling 
masonry or to notice the loose ceiling before it falls.

Players  may  assess  a  non-player  character’s  injuries  by 
tracking the damage they inflict or simply by what the inves-
tigators perceive, although these may not be wholly reliable, 
as a non-player character might have magical defense or may 
only  be  pretending  to  be  injured.  When  a  successful  First 
Aid or Medicine roll is performed on a non-player character, 
you  should  indicate  to  the  player  whether  the  non-player 
character is dying, dead, or alive. 

The investigators may reduce an enemy to unconscious-
ness—a  condition  from  which  the  enemy  will  most  likely 
recover, given time. This may provide a moral dilemma—do 
the investigators allow an evil cultist to live or do they carry 
out  a  summary  execution?  In  most  cases,  cold-blooded 
murder should incur a Sanity roll.

Chases
The task of describing a location is usually part of the Keep-
er’s role; in a chase, however, when the player wins a Luck 
roll, he or she is encouraged to do so. Some players may be 
hesitant  to  do  this,  in  which  case  you  should  ask  leading 
questions and encourage the player to elaborate.

Harvey  is  running  along  a  street,  pursued  by  an 
enraged  gang.  The  Keeper  has  no  plans  for  the  sur-
rounding area and decides to throw it open to chance. 
Harvey’s player wins a Luck roll and gets to define the 
next few locations. Harvey’s player looks a little blank. 
“OK, so you’re running up the street, it’s crowded 
with  evening  shoppers  and  people  heading  home 
from work. You’ve passed your Dodge roll and weave 
through the crowd with ease. There are alleys to the 
left and right, some shops are still open, where are you 
heading?” the Keeper asks.

“Um, I’ll head for a side alley.”
“Great. What’s the alley like? Is it clear or are there 
any obstacles such as trashcans? Is there anyone in the 
alley?” the Keeper prompts the player.

“There’s  a  garbage  truck  and  men  emptying 

trashcans into it,” the player states.

“So you’re going to have to dodge around them?”
The Keeper sums up what the player has said and