 his  Intelligence 
on 1D100, it’s all going to be too much for him to 
take and he’ll faint (Paula rolls a 04 and her investi-
gator faints).

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Since  Paula’s  investigator  was 
holding the flashlight; it’s now rolling on the floor, 
flashing  wildly  about  the  room. Arnold’s  professor 
has realized that the windows are barred with iron 
gratings. The only way outside seems to be past the 
Thing.

ALL (in confusion): I’m trying to pound open the 
bars with a chair! Where’s my flashlight? Does any-
one know what this thing is? I’m shooting at its face. 
Help! Help!

Do  the  grills  on  the  windows  unlock  and  swing 
back? What do the symbols on the wall represent? Does 
the monster attack? Did Paula’s investigator remember 
to take the ledger and legal documents he found? Does 
Jake’s.38 revolver affect the monster?

What This Game Covers
Likewise are there dread survivals of things older 
and more potent than man; things that have blas-
phemously straggled down through the aeons to ages 
never meant for them; monstrous entities that have 
lain sleeping endlessly in incredible crypts and remote 
caverns, outside the laws of reason and causation, and 
ready to be waked by such blasphemers as shall know 
their dark forbidden signs and furtive passwords.

—H.P. Lovecraft and William Lumley,  
The Diary of Alonzo Typer

The Cthulhu Mythos as originated by Lovecraft de-
fines this game; however, certain interesting concepts 
and creations by some of Lovecraft’s contemporaries 
and beyond have also been used to ensure that the 
full horrors of the Mythos can be utilized.

Many  Call  of  Cthulhu  scenarios  are  set  in  the 
United States in the 1920s—called the Classic Era—in 
which most of Lovecraft’s tales were set. To Lovecraft 
the  1920s  were  modern-day,  and  so  this  book  uses 

Call of Cthulhuboth  the  Classic  Era  and  our  own  Modern-day  as  period 
settings.  Many  supplements  and  published  scenarios  exist 
for different eras, including Gaslight Victorian and the Dark 
Ages. Set your games when you wish. If so desired, a Keeper 
may change the period to a more modern date or a more an-
cient one. The Cthulhu Mythos transcends all time and space, 
and the unfathomable machinations of the Old Ones could 
spill into any conceivable setting or historical period. 

This New Edition
Call  of  Cthulhu  was  originally  published  in  1981  and  has 
been  consistently  available  and  supported  by  Chaosium 
since  then.  This  book,  the  seventh  edition,  has  been  fully 
revised and sees some significant changes, while remaining 
compatible with previous editions. Advice for using previ-
ously published material is provided in the section Convert-
ing to 7th Edition on page 390.

Notice to Keepers
It is recommended that anyone hoping to run a game of Call 
of  Cthulhu  becomes  familiar  with  the  works  of  H.P.  Love-
craft.  By  reading  Lovecraft’s  stories,  you  will  not  only  learn 
a lot about the Cthulhu Mythos, but you will also begin to 
understand some of the key horror themes that are used in 
this  game.  You  can  read  anything  written  by  him,  but  the 
following works are the heart of the Mythos and will make 
a good start:

T  The Lurking Fear
T  The Horror at Red Hook
T  The Colour Out of Space
T  The Dunwich Horror
T  The Shadow Over Innsmouth
T  The Dreams