 Skill/Difficulty Level
For  each  skill,  entry  notes  are  provided  for  which  skill  (if 
any)  works  in  opposition,  and  suggestions  given  for  what 
constitutes a Regular and Hard difficulty level. The Regular 
difficulty level (requiring a roll of equal to or below the skill 
value) is the default roll. Where things are significantly more 
difficult, a Hard difficulty level (requiring a roll of equal to 
or  below  half  of  the  skill  value)  may  be  required.  Rarely 

54 

Call of Cthulhu 
Pushing Skills
For each skill, a number of examples are provided for what 
might constitute a "pushed roll" (see page 84 for Pushing the 
Roll), and also some of the possible consequences for failing 
a  pushed  roll.  The  suggestions  given  should  be  viewed  as 
simply that—suggestions. The latitude for what could jus-
tify a pushed roll is wide, and should be best determined by 
actions, motivations, and events within the game. Likewise, 
the consequences of a failed pushed roll will be best served if 
inspiration is drawn from current game events, non-player 
characters, and the game world. 

Likewise, where appropriate, an example is provided for 
a possible consequence of an investigator pushing a skill roll 
while  insane.  The  very  fact  that  the  investigator  is  insane 
while performing a task heightens the stakes for the roll, as 
the  consequences  of  a  pushed  failure  will  often  be  all  the 
more extreme (or bizarre).

The  examples  merely  provide  ideas,  and  it  is  intended 
that  both  players  and  Keepers  fashion  their  own  justifica-
tions and consequences as appropriate to their games and 
playing styles. 

Combined Skill Rolls
In  some  situations  the  Keeper  may  ask  for  a  roll  against 
more than one skill. Only one dice roll is made; the result 
is then compared with each of the skills named. The Keeper 
will specify whether a success is required for both skills or if 
only one of the skills need be successful.

A deranged cultist suddenly draws a gun on Harvey. 
The  Keeper  asks  for  either  a  Spot  Hidden  roll  or  a 
Psychology roll from Harvey. A success on either will 
allow Harvey to anticipate the attacker’s action, and 
perhaps give Harvey a chance to act first. A successful 
Spot  Hidden  would  allow  him  to  see  the  gun  being 
drawn  by  the  cultist,  while  a  successful  Psychology 
would allow Harvey to anticipate the cultist’s aggres-
sive intent.

Later,  Harvey  attempts  to  repair  an  electric  tur-
bine.  The  item  is  both  mechanical  and  electrical,  so 
the  Keeper  asks  for  a  combined  Mechanical  Repair 
and Electrical Repair roll. One roll is made, and the 
result  is  compared  to  both  skills—in  this  case  both 
must be successful to achieve the task.

Note the importance of using a single dice roll in 
the latter example. Harvey has only 10% skill in both 
Mechanical Repair and Electrical Repair. His chance 
of success when making one dice roll and comparing 
it to both skills simultaneously is 10%. If he were to 
make  two  successive  rolls,  first  against  Mechanical 
Repair and then against Electrical Repair, his chance 
of succeeding both would be reduced to 1%. 

Harvey attempts to repair an electric turbine.

should the Extreme difficulty level (requiring a roll of equal 
to or below one-fifth of the skill value) be called for—only 
in  the  most  extreme  and  dire  situations.  Sometimes  this 
may  be  simply  that  the  performance  of  the  skill  is  greatly 
hindered,