  on  the  rafter  and 
attempt  the  lift,  but  since  one  attempt  has  already 
been made, that this will constitute a pushed skill roll. 
Neither Helen’s nor Belinda’s STRs have been factored 
in yet, so they are both able to attempt the pushed skill 
roll to lift the rafter. Helen rolls a success, Belinda rolls 
a failure. One success was all that was needed. Rodger 
is freed.

88 

Call of Cthulhu"We'll get you out of there, Rodger"

turn  from  the  opposition’s  characteristic.  Continue  doing 
this until the opponent’s characteristic has been reduced to a 
value that can be challenged by an investigator. Investigators 
whose characteristics were not used to reduce the opposing 
factor may now make a skill roll, with an Extreme, Hard, or 
Regular difficulty level, as determined by the new value of 
the opposing characteristic. 

This  rule  is  only  generally  applicable  to  physical  chal-
lenges in which characters can use their shared Strength or 
Size to achieve a task. The opposition cannot be reduced to 
zero or lower by this method; a skill roll is always required.

Fumbles and Criticals
I have said that Danforth refused to tell me what final horror 

made him scream out so insanely—a horror which, I feel 

sadly sure, is mainly responsible for his present breakdown.

—H.P. Lovecraft, At The Mountains Of Madness

01: A Critical Success
A roll of 01 means that something beneficial occurs beyond 
simply achieving the goal. The nature of the good fortune 
is at the Keeper’s discretion, although the players may make 
suggestions. In combat, for example, a critical success means 
that the attacker has hit a vulnerable spot and causes maxi-
mum damage.

Brian  is  attempting  to  appraise  an  unusual  gold 
crown, and rolls 01 with his Appraise skill of 35%. The 
Keeper tells Brian that not only is he able to determine 
an accurate monetary value for the crown (the normal 
outcome for a Regular success), he also identifies that 
the crown is from the South Seas, possibly one of the 
fabled  items  brought  back  by  Captain  Marsh  in  the 
1830s (as a result of the critical success).

Very  high  or  very  low  dice  rolls  are  unusual,  and  signify 
good or bad fortune for the players.

The impact of Fumbles should take effect immediately 

and may not be negated through pushing the roll.

96—100: Fumble
A fumble simply means that something really bad occurs—
something worse than a straight failure. The nature of the 
misfortune or bad luck is at the Keeper’s discretion. 

89 

chapter 5: game systemIf the dice roll required for success is 50 or over and the 

dice read 100, a fumble has occurred.

If the dice roll required for success is below 50 and the 

dice read 96—100, a fumble has occurred.

Brian  encounters  a  ghoul.  Making  his  Sanity  roll 
he rolls 100—a fumble. He automatically takes the 
maximum Sanity point loss for seeing the ghoul.

Another example: Harvey has 55% Library Use 
skill.  If  he  were  searching  the  library  for  clues,  the 
Keeper might ask for a Library Use roll. Given that 
his skill is 55%, he will only fumble on a roll of 100. 
If Harvey were furtively searching through a private 
library in the dark, with only a candle for light, the 
Keeper might set the difficulty level to Hard, requir-
ing a roll of 27. In this case, Harvey would fumble on 
a roll of 96 to 100.

Luck
Luck  rolls  may  be  called  for  by  the  Keeper  when  circum-
stances  external  to  any  investigator  are  in  question,  and 
also when determining the fickle hand of fate. If a skill or 
characteristic is applicable