the house’s front door quietly opening. Don’t forget to tick 
your Listen skill, as you got a success.

CATHY: Right. (She makes a check mark on her sheet). I’m 
grabbing  Joe  and  attempting  to  hide  behind  the  garbage 
cans. 

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  OK,  I’ll  need  you  both  to  make  a 
Stealth roll.

JOE and CATHY: Yeah! We both rolled successes (both tick 
their Stealth skills). We’re well hidden behind the garbage.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: Great. Since it’s night and there are no 
working  street  lamps  near,  you  can’t  see  much.  The  form 
of a hulking figure leaves the house and creeps towards the 
street. When it reaches the middle of the street, it pulls up 
a manhole cover and drops down inside. You hear a splash. 
(Garrie makes a dubious liquid-sound…)

CATHY: Did he lock the door behind him?

(GARRIE) KEEPER: Not only is it not locked, it’s wide open.

CATHY: I’ll sneak back and tell the others. 

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  The  rest  of  you,  Cathy  told  you  that 
the front door is open.

Investigators enter an abandoned mansion.

JOE and PAULA together: Let’s go inside.

13 

chapter 1: introduction(GARRIE) KEEPER: What do you do, Arnold?

ARNOLD: Are you kidding? My professor go in there? No 
way.

CATHY: He can stand guard while the rest of us go inside.

ARNOLD: All alone? No way! He’s coming inside!

(GARRIE) KEEPER: It’s very dark and quiet inside.

PAULA:  Joe,  let  me  use  your  flashlight.  I’ll  take  the  lead. 
Everyone else keep their lights doused—we don’t want to be 
seen from the street.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: You  are  in  a  hallway. You  can  go  left 
through an arch into the living room or right, through an 
open  door  into  what  looks  like  a  study.  In  front  of  you  is 

a  stairway  leading  up.  Beneath  the  stairs  is  a  closed  door. 
Ahead your beam picks out some wet patches on the floor, 
possibly  footprints.  The  water  in  the  patches  is  dirty  and 
stinking.

PAULA: Where do the footsteps come from and where are 
they going?

(GARRIE) KEEPER: You can’t tell. Everyone try a Spot Hid-
den roll. (All fail to notice droplets of water on the underside 
of the banister). What do you want to do?

PAULA: I’m going into the study, and I intend to search it.

JOE: I’ll search the living room.

ARNOLD: The professor checks out the hall closet.

CATHY: Jake goes upstairs.

(GARRIE) KEEPER (Since the group has 
split  up,  the  Keeper  now  deals  individu-
ally  with  each  player):  Paula,  there  are 
bookshelves  in  the  study,  but  strangely 
only  a  few  books.  There  are  two  un-
locked  filing  cabinets,  a  locked  desk,  a 
chair for the desk and three big leather 
easy chairs.

PAULA: I’ll open the desk first.

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  It’s  locked.  If  you 
want to pick the lock make your Lock-
smith roll.

PAULA: I rolled a 23—that’s under my 
Locksmith skill of 34—I succeed! (Paula 
ticks the skill).

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Fine.  Now,  inside 
the desk you find two things of