ZAR

Call of Cthulhu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combat
By default, every monster (with a few exceptions), has the 
Fighting skill—a generic combat skill covering all manner 
of strikes, kicks, claws, teeth, tentacles, elbows, head butts, 
etc. If the being is able to use melee weapons, the Fighting 
skill should be used for those as well. Be creative in how you 
use and portray these attacks. Each entry describes how the 
monster would normally attack, and key words, such as bite 
or kick, are provided to give Keepers ideas on how best to 
describe differing attacks. The environment can also be add-
ed to the description of attacks and damage: an investigator 
could be crushed between an elephant and a tree; a ghoul 
could crack open an investigator’s head against a gravestone; 
and so on. 

While a monster’s standard attack could be used every time, 
this can become repetitive and dull. Using the damage listed for 
the monster’s standard Fighting attack frees the Keeper from 
having to adjust the damage with each variation, allowing the 
Keeper  greater  freedom  to  describe  the  monster’s  attacks  in 
creative and imaginative ways. The Keeper is neither gaining an 
advantage or disadvantage in varying the monster’s attacks—
he or she is making the story more exciting and engaging.

A deep one has the following attack listed:
Fighting 45% (22/9), damage 1D6 + damage bonus (1D4)
Using  this  skill,  the  Keeper  could  describe  a  suc-
cessful attack in any of the following ways. Regardless 
of the manner of attack, for ease of play, the same 1D6 
+ 1D4 damage is dealt.

i  The deep one rakes its claws across Harvey’s 

chest, slicing through his clothes.

i  The deep one charges into Harvey, body-slam-

ming him.

i  Kicking out backwards like a horse, the deep 
one slams its foot into Harvey’s midriff.
i  The deep one grabs Harvey’s jacket, thrusting 
Harvey’s  head  into  the  crumbling  plaster  of 
the wall in the Gilman House Hotel.

Monsters and Maneuvers
Maneuvers  (mnvr)  use  the  monster’s  Fighting  skill.  Build 
is an important factor for maneuvers; if the opponent is 3 
Build points above that of an attacker, a maneuver is ineffec-
tive. Any monster of Build 2 or greater is never going to have 
penalty dice when using a maneuver against a human being. 
The largest opponent a human (maximum Build 2) could 
take  on  with  a  maneuver  would  be  Build  4  (horse,  elder 
thing, etc.)—even then, the largest of humans would attack 
with 2 penalty dice due to the difference in Build. 

In combat, monsters can use the same range of maneu-
vers open to humans. The Keeper should visualize the mon-

A  dark  young  is  fighting  a  group  of  investigators. 
The dark young may initiate five separate attacks on 
its  turn  in  the  DEX  order,  one  of  which  may  be  its 
trample attack. 

First  attack:  The  dark  young  raises  one  of  its 
many hooves to stamp on a hapless investigator. The 
investigator’s player rolls a failure on the attempt to 
dodge  the  attack,  while  the  Keeper  rolls  a  Regular 
success  on  the  dark  young’s  Fighting  skill,  and  deals 
damage equal to damage bonus (4D6), for 11 damage. 
Second attack: This  time  the  dark  young  lashes 
out with a tentacle to attempt to grasp an investiga-
tor. This uses a fighting maneuver; of course the dark 
young  has  a  larger  build  than  any  investigator,  so 
does not take any penalty dice on the maneuver. The 
Keeper rolls an Extreme success.