common faith is shared, the methods, practices, and 
dogma  of  differing  sects  appear  to  be  noticeably  at 
odds  with  one  another.  While  some  work  in  silence 
and  shadows,  a  minority  of  others  espouse  a  more 
direct  approach,  working  to  establish  public  bodies, 
such as the Esoteric Order of Dagon, whose proselytiz-
ing condemns mainstream religion. While such sects 
remain  a  fringe  oddity,  it  remains  to  be  seen  if  such 
internal  schism  will  end  in  confrontation,  and  if  so, 
which side will win the day.

Cyaegha

They saw that it was a gigantic eye staring down at them. 
Around the eye, the sky split; deep clefts opened through 
which darkness began to ooze, a darkness blacker than the 
night, which crawled down as a set of slimy tentacles, taking 
on more form, more definite shape…something was standing, 
outlined against the black sky, something which had tentacles 
of darkness and a green-glowing eye.

—Eddy C. Bertin, Darkness, My Name Is

Cyaegha is an enormous black mass with one huge spherical 
green eye. It is possible that Cyaegha’s form is simply that of 
the huge eye surrounded by long tentacles.

Cult
Cyaegha is worshiped by the residents of a small village over 
its resting place in a remote part of western Germany. The 
cult holds human sacrifice; however, Cyaegha cares little for 
worship,  only  for  the  day  of  its  release.  Other,  rural  cults 
may exist elsewhere in Northern Europe.

SIZ 1000  DEX 70 

CON 600 

CYAEGHA, The One in Darkness
STR 400 
POW 175  HP 160
Damage Bonus: +17D6
Build: 18
Magic Points: 42
Move: 20 flying

INT 100

316 

Call of CthulhuATTACKS
Attacks per round: 5
Fighting attacks: If freed, Cyaegha drifts over 
an area, surveying all below, randomly 
picking  human  targets  to  crush  and 
squeeze with its tentacles. 

Cyaegha

Fighting 100% (50/20), damage 8D6 
Armor:  None,  but  takes  minimum 
damage  from  impaling  weapons 
and bullets. Reaching 0 hit points, 
Cyaegha  retreats  or  reforms  un-
derground. 

Spells: Whatever Call/Dismiss or Con-
tact spells the Keeper wishes. 

Sanity Loss: 1D10/1D100 Sanity points to 

see Cyaegha.

Some speak of a terrible curse that afflicts those who 
live in isolated areas where the possibility of Cyaegha 
worship exists. It is said that the One in Darkness can 
possess  the  unwary  and  convert  them  to  his  cause. 
This unspeakable hypnotic suggestion appears to start 
in a wayward individual who then slowly converts oth-
ers until a coven or secret group is formed with enough 
members to open a direct channel to their new master. 
Some  tales  speak  of  one  coven  that  was  able  to 
leech  power  and  magical  learning  directly  from  Cy-
aegha.  Their  diabolic  rites  were  not  meant  to  free  or 
empower the god, but rather to syphon-off the god’s 
energies for their own benefit. The tales equally speak 
of a terrible, yet unnamed, doom that came to those 
who practiced this inverted form of worship.

Daoloth
Not shapeless, but so complex that the eye could recognise no 
describable shape. There were hemispheres and shining metal,