 will specify whether 
a success is required for both skills, or if only one of the skills 
need be successful.

Investigator Development 

Phase

T  Roll  1D100  for  each  skill  checked.  If  the  result  is 
higher than the skill or over 95, add 1D10 skill points.

T  Erase ticks.
T  If an increase raises a skill to 90% or more, add 2D6 

Sanity points.

T  Check Credit Rating and review finances (see Inves-
tigator  Development  Phase:  Employment  and 
Credit Rating).

T  Seek to recover Sanity (see Chapter 7: Sanity).
T  Review  the  investigator’s  background  (see  Altering 

an Investigator’s Background, page 95).

407 

chapter 16: APPENDICESSummary of  
Melee Combat

1. Establish the order of attack: Rank all characters in DEX 
order—highest goes first.

Surprise attacks: Allow a skill roll to determine whether 
the target anticipates the attack (Spot Hidden, Listen, Psychol-
ogy).  If  successful,  switch  to  the  usual  DEX  combat  order. 
Otherwise the attack automatically hits or gains a bonus die.

2. Each character gets one action: Any action a character can 
make  in  a  combat  round—attacking,  dodging,  fighting  back, 
fleeing,  casting  a  spell,  etc.  Note:  some  NPCs  and  monsters 
have multiple actions.

3. Determine the intention of the action: Is the intention to 
cause damage, dodge or perform a maneuver?

4. The target of an attack may fight back, dodge the at-
tack or attempt a maneuver of their own.

5. Both sides make a skill roll.

If the character chooses to fight back, use the target’s Fight-

ing skill to oppose the attacker’s Fighting skill. 

If the character chooses to dodge, use the target’s Dodge 

skill to oppose the attacker’s Fighting skill.

If the target is neither fighting back nor dodging, refer to 

Striking the first blow (Surprise Attacks) on page 106.

6. Determine who was successful. 

a)  Attacking  a  target  that  is  fighting  back:  The  side  with 
the  better  level  of  success  avoids  being  harmed,  and  inflicts 
damage on the opponent. In a draw the character initiating the 
attack beats the character that is fighting back. If both fail, no 
damage is inflicted.

b) Attacking a target that is dodging: If the attacker gains a 
higher level of success, the attack is successful and the attacker 
inflicts  damage  on  the  loser.  Otherwise  the  attack  is  dodged 
and no damage is dealt. In a draw the character dodging wins 
and evades the attack. If both fail, no damage is inflicted.

Combat rolls cannot be pushed.

7.  Roll  damage  for  successful  attacks  (see  Table  XVII: 
Weapons, page 401-406, or 1D3 for unarmed human attack). 
If the attacker gains an Extreme level of success (not if fighting 
back) greater damage is inflicted:

If  the  attacker  is  using  an  impaling  weapon:  maximum 
damage  (maximum  damage  plus  maximum  damage  bonus) 
plus roll weapon damage. 

If  the  attacker  is  using  a  non-impaling  weapon  (e.g. 
blunt): maximum damage (maximum damage plus maximum 
damage bonus).

Summary of  
Fighting Maneuvers

If the goal is something other than simply inflicting physical 
harm (e.g. disarm), resolve it with a maneuver.

1. Compare Builds of the character performing the ma-
neuver and the target: If attacker is smaller then they take 1 
penalty die for each point of difference in Build. If difference 
is 3 or more, the maneuver is impossible.

2. Make the attack roll: Same as for a regular Fighting attack 
(Brawling