damage. If Abhoth is reduced to 0 hit points, it withdraws and 
sinks far away down into the earth where it is inaccessible to 
further damage. It oozes toward the surface after healing from 
its injuries.

Spells:  None,  but  it  may  give  someone  that  it  takes  a  fancy-to  a 
portion of its own body, which could be used to create a crea-
ture identical to the spawn of Abhoth.

Sanity Loss: seeing Abhoth costs 1D3/1D20 Sanity points.

Atlach-Nacha

A darksome form, big as a crouching man but with long 
spider-like members…He saw that there was a kind of face 
on the squat ebon body, low down amid the several-jointed 
legs. The face peered up with a weird expression of doubt 
and inquiry; and terror crawled through the veins of the bold 
huntsman as he met the small, crafty eyes t 
hat were circled about with hair.

—Clark Ashton Smith, The Seven Geases

Atlach-Nacha  superficially  resembles  a  huge  and  hideous 
black  hairy  spider  with  a  strange,  remotely  human  face, 
and little red eyes rimmed with hair. It lives underground, 
eternally  spinning  a  fantastic  web,  bridging  an  immeasur-
ably deep chasm for unknown purposes. Old books cite the 
belief that when the web is completed, the end of the world 
will come. In the remote past Atlach-Nacha’s dwelling was 
far beneath the continent of Hyperborea—modern Green-
land. Now it may dwell beneath South America.

Cult
Atlach-Nacha is superstitiously believed to rule all spiders, 
perhaps  because  of  its  body  form.  It  has  no  cult  among 
humans,  however  it  sometimes  grants  sorcerers  spells  and 
POW. Sorcerers sometimes summon Atlach-Nacha via var-

311 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godspercentiles per round minus one percentile per lesser other 
god that arrived with it.

An  area  equal  to  its  pseudopod  radius  is  blasted  by 
Azathoth  and  totally  ruined,  with  cracked  boulders,  pools 
of alkaline water, and dead splintered trees, but damage to 
investigators is done by specific pseudopod.

AZATHOTH, Seething nuclear chaos
STR N/A  CON 1500  SIZ varies  DEX N/A 
POW 500  HP 300
Damage Bonus: N/A 
Build: Varies
Magic Points: 100
Move: 0

INT 0

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1D6 
Fighting  attacks:  Azathoth’s  many  pseudopods  may  strike  any-

thing nearby.

Fighting 100% (50/20), damage 1D100 hit points 
Armor:  None,  but  at  0  hit  points  Azathoth  is  dispelled  and  not 
slain, and can return at full strength in 1D6 hours. It takes 3D6 
damage from an Elder Sign, but destroys the Sign.

Spells:  Commands  all  the  Lesser  Other  Gods  and  much  of  the 

universe; fortunately it has 0 INT.

Sanity Loss: 1D10/1D100 Sanity points to see Azathoth.

Some  say  that  Azathoth  begat  the  universe  and  that 
he is also its end—the very primal chaos from which 
all  matter  and  life  began.  Thus  is  the  power  of  that 
which  lies  at  the  center  of  reality  that  many  seekers 
of forbidden knowledge have been driven mad in the 
pursuit of his secret name—a name said to hold sway 
and power over ‘those from