11 is rolled for Harvey’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a Hard success.
No opposing roll is made for the cultist on account of Harvey having the advantage of surprise.
Harvey snatches the bag from the cultist.
Now that Harvey’s surprise attack is concluded, the Keeper switches to using combat rounds (see Striking the First 

Blow, page 106).
Combat round one:
Rodger’s action:
Rodger has the highest DEX and so acts first. The Keeper asks what Rodger is doing (see Declaration of Intent: 
“What is your character doing?” page 102). Rodger’s player leans forward and tells how Rodger is going to grab the 
cultist from behind, keeping hold of him while Harvey punches the cultist’s lights out. The Keeper interprets this as a 
fighting maneuver with the goal of restraining the cultist. Both sides have equal Builds, so there are no bonus dice or 
penalty dice. The cultist tries to fight back, with an elbow to Rodger’s gut.
29 is rolled for Rodger’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a Regular success.
21 is rolled for the cultist’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a Regular success.
In the case of a draw with an opponent that is fighting back, the attacker wins.
Rodger’s maneuver is successful and he has grabbed hold of the cultist. The cultist’s blow fails to connect.
Cultist’s action:
The cultist acts next. He struggles to break free of Rodger’s hold, as Rodger strives to keep him held. The cultist is 
making a fighting maneuver. Rodger is simply trying to keep his hold on the cultist. The hold will only be broken if 
the cultist wins the maneuver, otherwise the status quo will remain. The cultist has a penalty die as a result of being 
restrained (see  Fighting Maneuvers, page 105).

Either 82 or 02 (penalty die) is rolled for the cultist’s Fighting (Brawl) skill, the highest roll is used—a Failure.

110 

Call of Cthulhu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rodger rolls a 24 for his Dodge skill—a Regular success.
The cultist fails to break free. Neither side inflicts damage on the other.
Harvey’s action:
Harvey has the briefcase in his hands, and the cultist is restrained before him. Harvey uses the briefcase as an 
improvised weapon (see Improvised Weapons, page 104) to bash the cultist in the face. The Keeper decides to allow 
Harvey to use his Brawl skill for the attack. The cultist has already fought back this round (versus Rodger) and so 
Harvey  gets  a  bonus  die  (see  Outnumbered,  page  108). The  cultist  attempts  to  dodge,  but  suffers  one  penalty  die 
because he is being restrained. 

Either 19 or 89 (bonus die) is rolled for Harvey’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a Regular success.
Either 01 or 71 (penalty die) is rolled for the cultist’s Dodge skill—a Failure.
The Keeper decides the briefcase will do the same damage as a small club, 1D6. The cultist takes 3 points of damage.

Combat round two:

Other commuters are shocked at the conflict that is taking place, but no one steps forward to intervene.
Rodger’s action:
Rodger already has hold of the cultist, so he doesn’t need to roll dice unless he wishes to do anything in addition to 
continuing to hold him. Rodger decides he’s going to take advantage of his hold on the cultist to slam the cultist’s face 
against a nearby pillar. The cultist attempts to break free. Both sides will make a fighting maneuver roll. The cultist has 
one penalty die for being restrained.

Rodger gets a 49 for his Fighting (Brawl) skill—a failure.
Either 11 or 81 (penalty die) is rolled for the cultist’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a failure.
Rodger fails to hurt the cultist and the cultist fails to break free. The cultist is still held and the two of them are 

str