 combat. Narratively you 
may have missed your target and punched a wall or moved 
the  wrong  way  and  into  your  opponent’s  blow.  There  are 
many ways to get hurt during combat; your opponent’s fist 
is only one of them.

There are three solutions available to you:
T  First use the default rule by which nothing happens 

when both sides fail.

T  Second resolve the situation by breaking the tie in 

favor of the higher skill. 

T  Third  allow  both  sides  to  inflict  damage  as  for  a 
successful attack. The two sides have clashed during 
combat.

This rule is not applicable to ranged or firearm attacks.

Harvey is fighting a deep one. Harvey throws a punch 
and  the  deep  one  fights  back  with  its  clawed  hand. 
Both  roll  a  failure  for  their  Fighting  (Brawl)  skill. 
They have clashed, both hurling blows at each other. 
Harvey inflicts 1D3 damage and the deep one inflicts 
1D6 + 1D4. 

125 

chapter 6: combatConcealed Damage
When you take an injury, do you know how close you are 
to death? This sense of uncertainty can be simulated if the 
Keeper  notes  down  the  points  of  damage  an  investigator 
receives  without  revealing  a  number  to  the  player.  Instead 
the Keeper only describes the injury to the player. Of course 
this is subjective and can be misleading; sometimes a minor 
injury can seem far worse than it is and vice versa. A cut to 
the  head  can  look  terrible;  a  little  blood  goes  a  long  way, 
but it may only represent one or two points of damage. The 
Keeper can always call for a CON roll just to keep the player 
guessing whether they have received a major wound or not 
(of  course  the  investigator  would  only  fall  unconscious  if 
the wound really was a major wound). The Keeper can re-
veal the actual number of points of damage after the event.

Harvey is snooping around an alley when he is shot. 
The Keeper tells how Harvey hears the shot then feels 
the impact in his left leg, and looking down to see blood 
seeping into his trousers. A moment later the pain hits 
him. It’s bad, but Harvey’s player must decide whether 
to go on or get Harvey to a hospital. The Keeper doesn’t 
confirm whether it is a major wound or not, but asks 
for a CON roll anyway. Harvey’s player makes a suc-
cessful CON roll. Later on the Keeper confirms that is 
was not a major wound (only 4 hit points of damage).

Suppressing Fire 
The  aim  of  suppressing  fire  is  to  make  a  group  of  targets 
"dive for cover," since targets that do so cannot return fire. 
The shooter does not nominate a specific target but declares 
that  they  are  bringing  suppressive  fire  upon  a  group.  A 
group of targets might be all the people in one room (such 
as in a bank heist) or any group of people within the gun’s 
firing  arc.  Each  target  in  that  area  then  has  the  option  to 
"dive for cover" without knowing if they will be specifically 
targeted or not. The intention is to simulate the panic that 
people might feel when fired upon.

A  group  of  six  investigators  and  four  non-player 
character allies are trying to rescue a girl being held 
hostage by a cultist. The cultist is dragging the girl to 
a  car,  and  lets  off  three  shots  in  the  direction  of  the 
investigators. The Keeper gives everyone a chance to 
dive for cover. Four of the investigators dive for cover 
(two  are  successful,  two  fail);  everyone  else  stands 
their ground. The Keeper allocates every investigator 
