 Regular  difficulty:  find/make  shelter;  locate  water 

and sources of food.

i  Hard difficulty: as above but when weather condi-
tions are extreme and/or you are badly injured.

Pushing examples: trying something risky (e.g. drinking the 
water without purifying it first; eating unidentified berries); 
using  all  of  one’s  clothing  to  improve  a  shelter;  burning 
every possession to make a signal fire.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the cave you 
found is inhabited by a very angry bear; having burnt all of 
your clothes to make a signal fire, you have now given away 
your  position  to  your  pursuers—will  your  rescuers  reach 
you before the pursuers do?

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she be-
lieves themselves to be impervious to the elements and able to 
exist as a breatharian (able to exist without food and water).

Swim (20%)
The  ability  to  float  and  to  move  through  water  or  other 
liquid. Only roll Swim in times of crisis or danger, or when 
the Keeper judges it appropriate. Failing a pushed Swim roll 
can result in loss of hit points. It may also lead to the person 
being  washed  away  downstream,  partially  or  completely 
drowned.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Modifiers may be awarded for the conditions or situation. 
i  Swimming a length in the swimming pool: no roll 

required

i  Regular difficulty: swimming in a fast-moving cur-

rent.

i  Hard  difficulty:  swimming  against  a  rapid  current 
while fully dressed; adverse weather conditions.

Pushing examples: taking a big breath and really going for 
it with all your remaining strength; pushing your physical 
limits.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the current 
pulls you under and you lose consciousness, awaking on an 
unknown  beach;  you  are  pulled  under  and  are  injured  by 
being dashed against rocks; you strive for the lifeboat and, 
just as you make it, you feel something cold and slimy grab 
your ankle.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
keeps  on  swimming  and  probably  considers  dry  ground 
dangerous for some reason.

Throw (20%)
To hit a target with an object or to hit a target with the right 
part  of  the  object  thrown  (such  as  the  blade  of  a  knife  or 
hatchet), use Throw. 

A palm-sized object of reasonable balance can be hurled 

up to STR in yards. 

If the Throw roll fails, the object lands at some random 
distance  from  the  target.  The  Keeper  should  compare  the 
closeness of the die roll result to the highest number which 
would have indicated success, and choose a distance between 
target and thrown object that feels comparable.

The Throw skill is used in combat when throwing knives, 

rocks, spears, grenades, or boomerangs.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Modifiers might be applied for the weight of the object being 
thrown or, in the case of a very light object, the prevailing 
wind conditions.

i  Regular  difficulty:  throw  a  basketball  through  a 

hoop.

i  Hard difficulty: an accurate shot at a distance; throw 
a basketball through a hoop from center court.

Once an item has been thrown, it is quite literally out of 
the investigator’s hands and therefore  there is  nothing  the 
player can do to justify Pushing the roll. If multiple missiles 

77 

chapter 4: skillsare available, there is no risk connected with failure and it 
is only a matter of time until the investigator is successful, 
don’t roll dice. If multiple missiles are available and there is 
a distinct risk connected with failure then the Keeper might 
ask for a Pushed roll.

Pushing examples: taking more time to assess the distance 
or waiting some time