 charges for greatest effect when 
destroying a bridge or building.

i  Hard  difficulty:  to  defuse  an  explosive  device  in 

limited time.

Pushing examples: taking until the very last second to de-
fuse the bomb; double-checking all the circuits/connections 
by hand.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: if defusing 
or removing an explosive device, the consequence of failing 
a pushed roll is clear—it explodes! If using the Demolitions 
skill  to  place  charges,  the  consequence  of  failing  a  pushed 
roll may be a failure to detonate at the right time (or at all), 
or that the detonation fails to have the desired effect (either 
too great or too little). 

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
devises the most bizarre method of delivering the explosive, 
such as strapping it to a cat or to themselves.

Disguise (05%) 
To be used whenever you wish to appear to be someone oth-
er than whom you are. The user changes posture, costume, 
and/or voice to enact a disguise, posing as another person 
or another sort of person. Theatrical makeup may help, as 
will fake ID.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
There  are  two  distinct  aspects  to  this  skill:  either  you  are 

trying to conceal your true identity (such as when the police 
are looking for you) or you are impersonating someone else. 
i  Regular difficulty: to convince strangers that you are 
who you say you are. For example, to return to the 
scene of a crime that you perpetrated yesterday and 
escape notice. 

i  Hard difficulty: to convince professionals in a face-
to-face meeting that you are who you say you are. 
For  example,  to  pass  as  a  bank  employee  to  gain 
access to a bank vault.

Note  that  to  pass  as  a  specific  person  in  a  face-to-face 
meeting  with  someone  who  knows  the  person  being  imi-
tated is beyond the scope of this skill, and may well indicate 
the need for a combined skill roll at a higher difficulty (with 
Persuade, Charm, or Fast Talk).

Pushing  examples:  undergoing  a  fully  immersive  and 
intensive  preparation  (losing  oneself  in  the  role);  stealing 
personal items and utilizing them in the disguise; overt ex-
aggeration to confound the target; feigning a sudden attack 
of illness to disorient the observer.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  Being 
arrested;  causing  offence,  leading  to  violence  or  criminal 
charges; finding that the person being imitated is wanted by 
a criminal gang who come looking for vengeance.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, the investi-
gator no longer recognizes his or her own face in the mirror, 
even when the disguise is removed.

Diving (01%) [Uncommon]
The  user  is  trained  in  the  use  and  maintenance  of  diving 
equipment for swimming underwater, including underwater 
navigation, proper weighting, and emergency procedures. 

Prior to the invention of the Aqua-Lung in 1942, rigid 
diving  suits  were  worn  with  air  pumped  from  the  surface 
through a connecting tube. 

In  the  modern  age,  a  scuba  diver  will  be  familiar  with 
the  physics  of  diving,  air  pressure,  and  the  physiological 
processes that occur when breathing with pressurized air.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  routine  dives  using  correct  and 

well-maintained equipment.

i  Hard  difficulty:  diving  in  dangerous  conditions  or 

with poorly maintained equipment.

Pushing  examples:  pushing  the  limits  of  the