  likelihood  of  the  investigators  realizing  the 
clue—this  is  something  they  are  incapable  of,  as  fictional 
characters. The Keeper is offering the players a gamble, ask-
ing them to risk the negative consequences to gain the clue. 
A part of the role of players is to take note of clues during 
the game. There is a balance between the Keeper giving clues 
out  and  the  players  taking  clues  in.  The  Idea  roll  aims  to 
reflect  this  balance.  If  the  clue  has  never  been  mentioned, 
the balance must be redressed in the players’ favor and this is 
achieved by giving the players a strong chance of getting the 
clue for free. If the clue has been made obvious but some-
how missed by the players, the players have had their chance 
and so they are owed no redress, and thus the Idea roll is set 
to Extreme difficulty level.

199 

chapter 10: playing the gameWinning the Idea Roll
If the players win the Idea roll, the Keeper should deliver the 
clue. The information should be enough to get the story going 
again with a strong direction. The Keeper should weave the 
delivery of the “idea” into the story rather than simply giving 
out the information. If the clue was never mentioned at all, 
some creativity is required in how the players attain the clue. 
When  an  Idea  roll  is  made,  the  Keeper  has  complete 
control of the situation and can move time on or place the 
investigators  in  whatever  situation  is  judged  appropriate; 
however, you should not increase their level of danger as the 
result of a winning roll.

The  investigators  visited  a  second-hand  bookshop 
when  researching  a  cult.  They  went  to  the  shop  be-
cause they found an occult tome with a bookmark on 
which was written the shop’s name. The investigators 
had  hoped  to  find  yet  more  tomes.  Unknown  to  the 
players,  the  shop  is  run  by  the  cult,  and  the  investi-
gators had seen the shopkeeper previously but failed 
to recognize him during their visit. The Keeper called 
for  a  Spot  Hidden  roll  at  the  time  to  see  if  anyone 
recognized  the  shopkeeper, thinking that  it might be 
interesting  if  the  investigators  didn’t  recognize  him. 
With the benefit of hindsight, this was an error. 

Now,  two  sessions  later,  the  investigators  have 
exhausted their leads and have requested an Idea Roll. 
The Keeper agrees, considers what lead to give them 
and  decides  that  the  second-hand  bookshop  offers  a 
strong link to the plot, being a key location for the cult.
The players never spoke to or discussed the shop-
keeper,  even  though  the  Keeper  mentioned  him  a 
couple of times, so that calls for a Hard difficulty level. 
The player with the highest INT throws the dice and 
rolls under half their Idea score—a win.

The Keeper tells the players how the investigators 
sit  together,  going  over  all  their  research  and  clues. 
“You decide to check out all the previous leads again. 
Ten days later you find yourself (addressing a partic-
ular player) back in that bookshop on Charing Cross 
Road. Remember that? There are quite a few custom-
ers in there this time and one of them is chatting to the 
shopkeeper. You recognize him from when you spied 
on  the  cult  meeting—he  was  there  too!  Fortunately 
he hasn’t spotted you and you can slip out unseen if 
you wish.”

This  will  probably  be  enough  to  get  the  game 

moving again.

Losing the Idea Roll—In the Thick of It
If the players lose the Idea roll they find themselves in deep 
trouble. A lost Idea