 probably increase the level of diffi-
culty of the roll.

A skill level of 50% is high enough to let a character eke 
out a living from it. If an investigator rises high in a skill un-
related to their profession, player and Keeper could confer 
about changing the investigator to a new profession.

Specific  situations  that  arise  in  your  game  will  require 
the Keeper to make judgments about how to apply the rules 
regarding  skill  use.  Some  suggestions  on  how  to  use  the 
skills  in  specific  circumstances  are  given  under  individual 
skills. This use of suggestions is to encourage the Keeper to 
make judgments rather than referring to a host of spot rules.
Certain skills embody a wide range of knowledge, such 
as Art and Craft, Fighting, Firearms, and Science, allowing 
investigators to specialize in narrower avenues of learning.

Some of  the skills detailed below are termed [Uncom-
mon]  and  are  not  included  on  the  standard  investigator 
sheet (Artillery, Demolitions, Hypnosis, Read Lips, etc.). If 
the Keeper wishes to include these extra skills in the game, 
or if a player wishes to take one, this should be made clear. 
The  Keeper  may  introduce  other  skills  depending  on  the 
setting and period; for example, if one were to set a game 
in the far future on an alien planet then various new skills 
might be devised.

Skill Specializations
Some broad skills are broken into specializations. A player 
may spend skill points to purchase any skill specialization. 
The  generic  skill  cannot  be  purchased.  Thus  a  player  may 
spend  points  in  Fighting  (Brawl)  or  Fighting  (Spear)  but 
not simply Fighting.

Skill Points:
What Do They Mean?

General level of ability  
by skill value:

01%–05%: Novice: complete amateur.

06%–19%:  Neophyte:  beginner  with  a  small 
amount of knowledge.

20%–49%: Amateur: possesses some talent or rudi-
mentary training (hobby level).

50%–74%:  Professional:  allows  a  character  to  eke 
out a living from the skill. Equivalent to a bachelor’s 
degree in a specific subject.

75%–89%:  Expert:  advanced  expertise.  Corre-
sponds with a master’s degree or Ph.D.

90%+: Master: among the world’s best in the skill.

In the case of Art and Craft, Science, and Survival, these skills 
encompass  a  wide  diversity  of  specializations.  The  Keeper 
must decide on the applicability of a particular specialization 
to the situation in hand. Depending on the specific situation, 
the Keeper may allow the use of an alternate specialization at 
an increased level of difficulty if the Keeper agrees that there 
is sufficient overlap with that specialization. 

Among  the  specializations  there  are  often  transferable 
skills and knowledge. At the end of this chapter you will find 
an optional rule for the transferable skill benefit.

The  investigators  are  trying  to  crack  a  numerical 
code.  The  Keeper  calls  for  a  Cryptography  skill  roll. 
A  player  lacking  Cryptography  asks  if  they  can  use 
their  Mathematics  skill  instead.  The  Keeper  allows 
the  roll  at  an  increased  level  of  difficulty.  A  Regular 
success was required when using Cryptography (a roll 
equal to or under the skill), so a Hard success (a roll 
equal to or under half the skill) is required when using 
Mathematics in its place.

Opposing Skill/Difficulty Level
For  each  skill,  entry  notes  are  provided  for  which  skill  (if 
any)  works  in  opposition,  and  suggestions  given  for  what 
constitutes a Regular and Hard difficulty level. The Regular 
difficulty