 work.

T  He wants to get out of the sanatorium, by any means.
T  He  begs  for  company  and  is  afraid  to  spend  time 
alone. If he escapes he may seek out the investiga-
tors’ company if they were sympathetic.

Manifestation: The investigators perhaps hear the voice 
of the patient in the padded cell next door… Only he killed 
himself last night and the room was emptied this morning.
Semi-lucid  statements  triggered  by  certain  words: 
Hunter is distracted, incoherent, and incapable of conduct-
ing  a  rational  conversation—and  that’s  when  calm  and 
partly sedated. However, if the investigators talk with him, 
certain words and phrases they might use will trigger perti-
nent statements about the recent past, which Hunter’s mind 
can  only  now  approach  obliquely.  The  Keeper  should  feel 
free to paraphrase and add to the following examples.

Forgery: “Money,  only  money,  false  art,  but  we  all  sell 

our souls in our way.”

Witch/Which:  “Her,  it  was  her  trial,  her  papers,  her 
name,  her  symbols,  her  prisoner,  stupid,  stupid,  stupid. 
I can hear her laughing. The cries, oh god the cries of the 
new-borns on her table.”

375 

chapter 15: scenariosLeiter: “Dead man, dead man, he saw them and they saw 
him, and off we go… Out–out are the lights–out all! And, 
over each quivering form, the curtain, a funeral pall, comes 
down with the rush of a storm. And the angels, all pallid and 
wan, uprising, unveiling, affirm that the play is the tragedy: 
"Man, and its hero the Conqueror Worm!”

Investigators succeeding in a Hard Own Language roll 
will identify the last part of this as a direct quote from Edgar 
Allan Poe.

Sale/buyer:  “Oh  money,  it  was  all  the  money  with 
him, no love of art, no real understanding, all dollars and 
cents.  Oh  he  got  offers  now  though  didn’t  he,  money  and 
money and money (laughs). He was happy at first, so happy, 
thought he’d hit the big one, we both did, poor old me, keep 
me in paints and good whiskey and pretty girls eh. But the 
price kept going up and up and up and up, until we were so 
scared…right to be scared…the truth…(screams)”

Wick:  “No,  no,  not  him,  bad  man,  bad  man,  eats  and 
eats and eats, you can hear them in his shop! Whispering, 
plotting, licking and licking, rats, rats in the walls, old dirty 
earth.”

Lucy: “Sees her, sees her next, pretty, pretty, all worms, 
worms,  poor  thing,  poor  Lucy,  Lucy  pours,  waiting  tables 
waiting tables, waiting…waiting…”

What did you see?/What happened at the Studio?: “You 
see,  oh  dear  god,  what  have  we  done,  not  out,  not  all  the 
way out, but soon. Can’t you hear it, smashing at the walls, 
screaming in the wind? It will be free and then—Oh God—
it wasn’t my fault, broken geometry, flaw, flawed copy, in the 
lines and the angles, you imbecile, don’t you see?”

Further Advice For the 
Keeper
There  is  no  exact  "right"  or  "wrong"  path  in  Crimson  Let-
ters, regardless of which NPC has been chosen as the thief 
of  the  Witch  Trial  Papers.  This  being  said,  however,  some 
approaches and leads will