and 
filmed) by the heirs to Lovecraft’s literary legacy.

An Overview of the Game
The aim of playing Call of Cthulhu is to have fun with your 
friends as you explore and create a Lovecraftian story. One 
player takes the role of game moderator, known as the Keep-
er of Arcane Lore (“Keeper” for short), and his or her role 
within the rules is to run the game for the rest of the players. 
The rest of the players take the part of intrepid Investigators 
of  the  Unknown  (“investigators”),  attempting  to  seek  out, 
understand and eventually confront the horrors, mysteries 
and secrets of the Cthulhu Mythos. 

The Keeper picks a story to run. These stories are known 
as “scenarios”, and you will find two at the back of this book. 
A scenario provides the Keeper with the structure of a story 
for him or her to present to the players. The Keeper’s role 
is a little like that of a director making a film in which the 
actors don’t know how the story will develop. To extend that 
analogy, the players are like actors who have the freedom to 
improvise their own scripts. 

The  investigators  need  not  be  anything  at  all  like  the 
people  who  play  them.  Indeed,  it  is  often  more  rewarding 
and enjoyable for players to create characters entirely unlike 
themselves: tough private eyes, rude taxi drivers, or sinisterly 
genteel occultists. 

Most of the play is a verbal exchange. The Keeper sets the 
scene, describing the environment, the individuals, and en-
counters to the players. The players tell the Keeper what they 
intend their investigators to do. The Keeper then tells them 
whether they can do it and, if not, what happens instead. In 
play the game takes the form of a group conversation with 
many twists and turns and fun on the way.

The game rules use dice to determine if an action suc-
ceeds or fails when a dramatic “conflict” presents itself; for 
example, whether your investigators are able to leap out of 
the way of a giant statue that is about to crash down upon 
their heads! The rules describe how to decide the outcome 
of such conflicts. 

In Call of Cthulhu, the Keeper has the responsibility of 
preparing scenarios and running the game without bias. It 
is  the  Keeper’s  duty  to  make  the  investigators’  opposition 
smart and mean.

Cooperation & Competition
Gaming is a social pastime. If you want to use your imag-
ination alone, you could simply read a book. However, be 
warned!  When  a  number  of  people  get  together  coopera-
tively, they build a communal fantasy far more interesting 
and  imaginative  than  a  single  person  can—and  the  joint 
effort results in an extremely fun and satisfying experience 
for all involved. Together you create and develop a story in 
which each of your investigators plays a leading role.

Whether  or  not  investigators  cooperate,  the  players 
should.  Investigators  may  be  played  as  nice  people,  as 
devious  brutes,  or  however  the  players  wish.  Most  of  the 
entertainment of the game can be found in the ingenuity of 
players’ roleplaying and in-character conversations, as well 
as the unforeseeably scary or amusing directions the story 
will take.

Working cooperatively together, the players and Keeper 
build an enjoyable and understandable “world” in which to 
play. The rewards of cooperation are great. Remember, the 
object of all of this is to have fun!

Winners and Losers
In  Call  of  Cthulhu,  there  are  no  winners  and  losers  in  the 
standard competitive sense. Play is usually cooperative. The 
participants work together to attain a common goal—usual-
ly to discover and foil some nefarious plot being perpetrated 
by  the  minions  of  some  dark 