 as well as the half-copies, and put them well away from 
anywhere  they  can  do  direct  harm—the  efficacy  of  this  is 
up to the Keeper, as this is akin to sending a bomb away to 
explode in someone else’s yard, and the Horror’s visitation 
is not confined to just a place but also to those that have had 
prolonged contact with the Witch Trial Papers. 

The second and perhaps most obvious way is to destroy 
the illustrated portion of the papers (as this is the only place 
the danger actually lies). Doing so is also a risky business, as 
the Horror will immediately manifest in a frenzy, attacking 
as  it  unravels  into  the  Æther  until  it  disintegrates,  leaving 

380 

Call of Cthulhuonly a bloody, tar-like residue in its wake (a process that will 
take  1D6  rounds).  As  a  side  note,  Abner  Wick  is  the  only 
NPC in this scenario able to contain and deal with the Hor-
ror successfully, although he will demand ownership of the 
papers for doing so, and the methods he will use are such 
that the investigators would prefer to remain ignorant of.

The  third  possibility  is  the  optional  Spontaneous  use 
of Cthulhu Mythos skill (see page 180). If the investigators 
lack the skill, they can gain some points with an Initial Read-
ing of the papers (granted after an evening’s study). The goal 
in using this skill is up to the player, perhaps dispelling the 
monster from the papers. In desperation the player may seek 
to push the roll and fail, leading to dire consequences, and a 
horrific conclusion to the scenario. 

Resolving the Affair
If the investigators successfully find the Witch Trial Papers 
before the Horror’s final manifestation, they can choose to 
deal  with  the  dangerous  part  themselves  and/or  hand  off 
the papers to either Dean Fallon or another interested party. 
Alternatively they may fail at either or both of these goals.

If  they  succeed  in  returning  the  Witch  Trial  Papers  in 
whole  or  part,  or  even  forgeries,  to  Dean  Fallon,  they  will 
gain him as a professional contact of good standing, as well 
as  being  financially  rewarded  to  an  agreed  sum  or  $250 
dollars  each.  However  this  will  not  stop  the  Horror  from 
manifesting  (unless  they  have  somehow  neutralized  the 
entity), and, should the Keeper wish, it will hunt down the 
investigators.  Perhaps  the  investigators  may  realize  things 
are  not  at  an  end  when  in  the  following  day’s  newspaper 
they read the front page to see that Dean Fallon (who has 
not yet paid them) has been horribly murdered in a brutal 
and bizarre manner (by the Horror).

If  they  succeed  in  battling  the  Horror  and  preventing 
its  full,  unimpeded  manifestation,  they  should  gain  +1D6 
Sanity points. 

If  they  fail  and  the  Horror  manifests  somewhere  in 
Arkham, and the death toll is high, they each should make 
a  Sanity  roll  as  they  come  to  terms  with  their  failure  to 
prevent the loss of life (1D3/1D10 SAN loss). If the Horror 
manifests  somewhere  beyond  Arkham,  where  the  effects 
are minimized with little loss of life, apply 0/1D4 SAN loss 
instead.

Manifestation of the Horror in Ink

381 

chapter 15: scenariosOnce the Dust has Settled
Keepers wishing to continue the story set up in this scenario 
may wish to consider the following possibilities in devising 
further adventures for the investigators.

The  Other  Buyers:  Aside  from 