 however, the Dismiss portion of the spell can be cast 
anytime, anywhere. 

Dismiss Deity 
Spell Names 

When  composing  alternative  names  for  Dismiss 
Deity spells, consider the following words for inspi-
ration:

Banishment 
Dispel 
Exile 

Repel 
Bane 
Evict

Repudiate
Cast Out

Also,  try  to  use  evocative  and  subtle  names  for 
the actual Mythos deities rather than simply using 
their common names. There’s no reason why a spell 
name  concerning  Yog-Sothoth  couldn’t  reference 
the  being  as  The  Hideous  Spheres,  or  The  Un-
quenchable Thirster of Souls, and so forth. Keeping 
the players guessing about what a spell will do or to 
whom it’s connected can help to stimulate mystery 
and fear of the unknown

Cause/Cure Blindness
Cost:  8  magic  points  (and  2D6  Sanity  points  for  Cause 
Blindness)
Casting time: 1 day

The target suffers complete and permanent blindness, as if 
by a stroke. The same spell can reverse blindness if the eyes 
and optic nerves are essentially intact. The spell costs 8 mag-
ic points for either version. A day of ritual is required. For 
the spell to take effect the caster must succeed in an opposed 
POW roll with the target (automatic success if the target is 
consenting).

Alternative names: Grant Sight, Shade of Darkness, The 

Pharaoh’s Curse.

Chant of Thoth 
Cost: 10 magic points; 1D4 Sanity points.
Casting time: 30 minutes

The use of this spell increases the caster’s mental faculties, 
boosting his or her chance of solving a particular intellectual 
problem. Spending 10 magic points in the chant grants the 
caster a bonus die on his or her dice roll to gain knowledge, 
learn a spell, translate a passage, deduce the meaning of a 
symbol, etc. 

Alternative names: The Rite of Cerebral Acuity, The Song 

of Erudite Addition, The Scholars Chorus.

Harvey is trying to translate a Latin scroll. He casts Chant 
of  Thoth,  spending  10  magic  points.  He  has  a  Latin  skill 
of 66. He rolls 84 and 34 (bonus die); a success. The chant 
has expanded his mental capacities for a short time, during 
which he fully comprehends the Latin language. 

249 

chapter 12: grimoire 
 
 
 
Cloud Memory
Cost: 1D6 magic points; 1D2 Sanity points
Casting time: Instantaneous

The spell blocks the target’s ability to consciously remember 
a particular event. The caster must be able to see the target 
and the target must be able to receive the caster’s instruc-
tions.  The  spell  takes  effect  immediately  if  the  caster  suc-
ceeds in an opposed POW roll with the target. If the caster 
wins,  the  target’s  mind  is  mentally  blocked  regarding  one 
specified incident. If the incident was terrifying, the victim 
may  thereafter  still  have  nightmares  vaguely  relating  to  it. 
If the spell fails, the event in question becomes vivid in the 
target’s mind.

The caster must know the specific event to be blocked. 
The  caster  cannot  command  something  vague  such  as, 
“Forget  what  you  did  yesterday.”  Instead,  he  or  she  must 
cite a certain event, such as, “Forget you were assaulted by a 
monster.” This spell cannot block knowledge of spells or of 
the Cthulhu Mythos unless the knowledge is firmly tied to a 
specific event, nor can it undo a Sanity loss or undo insanity.
Alternative names: Befuddle, Dumbfound, Mystify.

Clutch of Nyogtha
Cost: 1+ magic points equal to twice the damage delivered 
that round; 1D20 Sanity points