 tome (if a Believer, see page 
179). The tome’s Mythos rating is then compared with the 
reader’s Cthulhu Mythos knowledge. If the reader’s Cthulhu 
Mythos skill is below the Mythos rating of  the  book, they 
gain Cthulhu Mythos points equal to the full study (CMF) 
number.  If  the  reader’s  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  is  equal  to  or 
above  the  book’s  Mythos  rating,  they  only  receive  Cthulhu 

174 

Call of CthulhuMythos skill points equal to the initial reading (CMI) number 
of the book. 

Subsequent periods of full study may be undertaken, the 
difference being that each study will take twice as long as the 
previous  one  (double  all  reading  times).  Cthulhu  Mythos 
skill increase and Sanity point loss are applied in the same 
way. In this way a single volume may be studied repeatedly 
over  the  years,  but  each  time  taking  progressively  longer 
than the last, and ultimately with diminishing returns.

In  the  summaries  of  Mythos  books  (see  Chapter  11: 
Tomes of Eldritch Lore), reading times for books are given 
in weeks. The Keeper should never feel at the mercy of such 
numbers and should shrink or increase them as appropriate. 
An outstanding academic with pertinent language skills will 
read  a  book  faster  than  an  earnest-but-uneducated  jour-
nalist. Time of study need not be consecutive days, weeks, 
or months. Note that for a subsequent study of a book, it 
is recommended that the full reading time is doubled and 
never reduced.

Only one tome may be studied at a time.

  After  an  hour  of  careful  searching,  Harvey  collects 
and  collates  the  Book  of  Eibon  from  the  cornfield. 
Later he decides to undertake a full study of the Book 
of Eibon, knowing that it will take around 32 weeks 
to complete. At the end of this period Harvey’s player 
notes  that  Harvey’s  Cthulhu  Mythos  knowledge  is 
still  well  below  the  book’s  Mythos  rating  of  33%,  so 
he gains the +8% Cthulhu Mythos skill points for a 
full study (CMF). Harvey’s player has already made 
a reading roll when Harvey made his initial reading, 
so she does not need to roll again. However, she must 
make  another  roll  for  Sanity  point  loss  (2D4),  this 
time only losing 3 points. 

Harvey can begin a further study of the Book of 
Eibon if he so wishes, but it will take twice as long (64 
weeks), at the end of which he would lose another 2D4 
Sanity points and gain the full study’s worth of +8% 
points of Cthulhu Mythos skill (so long as his Cthulhu 
Mythos skill remains below the tome’s Mythos rating). 
A third full study would take Harvey 128 weeks (al-
most two and a half years).

Mythos Rating—Books as References
Once a full study of a tome has been completed, the percen-
tiles entered for its Cthulhu Mythos Rating also quantify its 
usefulness as a Mythos reference. Such a book may be able to 
provide a specific fact about the Mythos (such as how long 
a  chthonian  takes  to  reach  maturity,  or  where Y’golonac’s 
body  awaits  its  resurrection)  that  might  be  useful  to  the 
investigator’s current situation or line of research.

To research a specific piece of information, the investi-
gator spends 1D4 game hours poring through the book. The 
player then rolls 1D100; if the result is equal to or