

Contact Servitor of the Outer Gods: A successful Luck roll 
establishes  that  a  servitor  is  within  the  Milky  Way  galaxy 
when the spell is cast. If no servitor is within that range, the 
magic points are lost. 

Stars must be visible to the caster. He or she attempts to 
visualize Azathoth’s Ineffable Heart (reputedly a spheroidal 
symbol of meditation but actually of unknown shape) that 
pulses and shines like liquid flame. The servitor manifests 

251 

chapter 12: grimoirewithin 1D6+4 rounds and expects a blood sacrifice. If the 
nominated sacrifice is inadequate, the servitor devours the 
caster. If the servitor accepts the sacrifice, it agrees to per-
form one simple task for the caster.

With a successful Persuade roll, the servitor also deigns 
to answer one respectful question about Mighty Azathoth, 
the court at the center of the universe, or an Outer God. The 
answer adds 1D3 Cthulhu Mythos to the questioner’s total, 
but the answer is meaningless to onlookers.

With a roll equal to or less than a fifth of the caster’s Per-
suade skill, the servitor also imparts a spell directly into the 
caster’s brain, costing the caster 1D8 Sanity points and 1D10 
rounds of disorientation. The servitor chooses the spell.

Its services rendered, the servitor may linger and play its 
unearthly pipes while colors flash across its body and its ten-
tacles writhe, or it may dissolve and return to some galactic 
arm or stellar nursery and resume its previous activity.

Hearing  its  insane  and  mesmerizing  pipes  costs  1/1D4 
Sanity points and thereafter haunts every singer or instru-
mentalist  who  was  present.  They  become  indifferent  to 
earthly scales and more and more feel compelled to perform 
in the cosmic scales revealed to them.

Cost: 14 magic points

Contact Spirits of the Dead: Many versions of this spell ex-
ist. One version requires a tent of white sheets to be erected 
near a river, and jugs full of the stream’s water are placed in-
side. Songs are sung and dances danced. An entreaty is made 
for the dead to appear. Add up all the magic points, multiply 
the sum by five, with the caster needing to roll equal to or 
under that result on 1D100. With a success, the voices of the 
dead emerge from the water jugs. One may hear them and 
discuss or question them by putting one’s head in the tent. 
Remember that the dead mostly know only what they knew 
in life and that some do not realize that they are dead.

Cost: 3 or more magic points

Contact Star-Spawn of Cthulhu: Unless there are no repre-
sentatives nearby, it succeeds automatically. It should be cast 
at the ocean shore, perhaps near a deep one outpost or else 
near a spot where star-spawn may sleep. The spell works well 
in Polynesia, along the Massachusetts coast, and above R’lyeh.

Cost: 6 magic points

Contact Yithian: This spell does not reach forward or back-
ward  in  time.  If  a Yithian  mind  occupies  a  subject  within 
one hundred miles of the caster at the time the spell is cast, 
the Yithian notices the appeal and may respond if curious, 
fearful,  or  alarmed.  If  the  caster  has  nothing  interesting 
to  say  or  offer,  then  the  Great  Race  scholar  ignores  later 
questions, or perhaps destroys the caster as a likely pest or 
nuisance.

Cost: 4 magic points

Alternative names: For Contact spells, use words like: Union, 
Commune, Exchange, Commerce, Covenant, Pact, Concord, etc. 
For example, The Red Pact, Covenant of the Deep, and so forth. 

Contact Deity Spells
Cost: 5 POW