 1D6 + 4 rounds 

Contact spells are divided into two separate groups: spells 
concerned with contacting Mythos creatures and monsters, 
and spells for contacting Mythos deities (see Contact Deity). 
Using  Contact  spells  a  cultist  could  get  in  touch  with 
monsters  and  alien  races,  perhaps  to  learn  about  magic, 
gods, or alien species. The caster should have a definite goal 
in mind; bargains might be struck and plans negotiated. 

Contact  spells  do  not  give  the  caster  the  upper  hand 
though; the spell is merely a method of establishing contact. 
Remember  these  are  independent  and  intelligent  beings 
with their own motivations—casters make contact at their 
peril! This is distinctly different to Summoning Spells (see 
page 263) that have the potential to allow casters to bind the 
summoned beings to their will. 

250 

Call of CthulhuProcedures  are  much  the  same  for  each  Contact  spell, 
though  particular  conditions  or  requirements  may  be 
unique. Knowing one Contact spell is of no help in casting 
another. Many versions of Contact spells exist.

Cast properly this spell always works, unless there are no 
such things living within a convenient distance (flying polyps 
might journey from the City in the Sands to some part of Aus-
tralia, but might ignore the chance to fly to North America).

A Contact spell takes five to ten rounds to cast. The thing 
reached by the spell may appear in a game hour or take a 
game day or more to show up. For a random appearance in 
hours, roll 1D100. Entities living nearby will walk, swim, dig, 
or fly to the spell point. If the trip is too long, the thing called 
by the spell never shows up. Things from other dimensions 
can appear in any characteristic or evocative manner.

The spell brings a random member of the species, pre-
sumably with its own motives. The caster should try to be 
alone, or to be with no more than a small group, in order 
not to seem threatening. Once the contacted thing appears, 
it is free to depart, so if the caster has something to offer it, 
the chances for an extended meeting greatly improve.

If a contacted species is large, such as a flying polyp, only 
one will likely appear. If it is human-sized or smaller, the Keeper 
may determine if several representatives arrive as a group.

There is no guarantee that a contacted entity would rather 
bargain with, or devour, the caster. It will have an alien moti-
vation; however, if further contact seems of advantage to both 
sides, then some interesting roleplaying may emerge.

As mentioned, each version of the spell requires certain 

conditions to be in place for it to work.

Contact Chthonian: Unless there are no chthonians nearby, 
it succeeds automatically. The spell must be cast at a loca-
tion that has known recent earthquakes or where hot spots 
and volcanoes offer relatively quick transport from the deep 
interior of the planet to the outer edge of the geologic crust.

Cost: 5 magic points

Contact Deep One: Unless there are no deep ones nearby, 
the  chanting  succeeds  automatically.  This  spell  should  be 
cast  at  the  edge  of  a  saltwater  ocean  or  sea.  To  work  best, 
it  should  be  cast  near  a  deep  one  city,  such  as  the  waters 
off Innsmouth, Massachusetts or the coast near the town of 
Dunwich,  England.  Part  of  the  ritual  consists  of  throwing 
specially inscribed stones into the water.

Cost: 3 magic points

Contact  Elder  Thing:  Unless  there  are  no  elder  things 
nearby, the chanting succeeds automatically. The most likely 
locations  are  along  the  southern  part  of  the  Mid-Atlantic 
Ridge