  The  Lovely  Bones,  Pan’s  Labyrinth,  Fight  Club 
and Mulholland Drive. In these movies, characters struggle to 
differentiate between reality and hallucinations, and we, the 
viewer, are unsure if what we are seeing is real or imaginary.

Scaring the Players
“What would your feelings be, seriously, if your cat or your 
dog began to talk to you, and to dispute with you in human 
accents? You would be overwhelmed with horror. I am sure 
of it. And if the roses in your garden sang a weird song, you 
would go mad. And suppose the stones in the road began to 
swell and grow before your eyes, and if the pebble that you 
noticed at night had shot out stony blossoms in the morning?”
—Arthur Machen, The White People

The horror genre can be a lot of fun. Right down to pound-
ing hearts and sweating brows, it is part of human nature to 
find pleasure in being scared, as long as being scared is not 
for real. Of course, actually scaring anyone is rare in a game 
consisting of dice and paper, but be assured it can happen. 

The  game’s  setting  is  ostensibly  that  of  the  real  world 
with which we are intimately familiar. As you play, strive to 
make the world realistic so your players feel at home in it. If 
a monster appeared in real life, most of us would be scared, 
but a player is unlikely to be scared even if a monster enters 
through  his  or  her  investigator’s  front  door—the  player 
knows this is a horror game, and is expecting monsters. In-
stead of using a monster to scare a player, try to confound the 
player’s expectations of how things in the “real” world work. 
Consider the following event for example: the investigator 

says  goodbye  to  his  wife  as  she  leaves  the  house  for  work, 
and then, five minutes later, his wife walks down the stairs in 
her dressing gown. Don’t provide an explanation. If you can 
induce cognitive dissonance (holding two conflicting ideas 
simultaneously) in the player, you will open the door to fear 
as the player’s mind struggles to make sense of the situation. 
We get scared when we can’t make sense of things, especially 
when those things that don’t make sense are the mundane, 
everyday things that we know we should understand. 

Pacing  works  hand-in-hand  with  confounding  expec-
tations  to  create  a  sense  of  escalating  tension  and  terror. 
Present  the  players  with  problems  and,  when  the  player 
shows signs of coping with the problems, toss in an addi-
tional complication. Look through your scenario, consider 
the problems that will arise for the investigators and be on 
the lookout for more as you play. 

Harvey  has  discovers  that  a  cult  is  operating  in  the 
local  town  (problem  1).  Investigations  lead  him  to 
discover  that  they  are  planning  something  horrible 
for  the  town  fair  tomorrow  night  (problem  2)!  As 
his investigations proceed, he unearths evidence that 
Uncle Theodore is involved with the cult—is the in-
formation really true (problem 3)?

Harvey  is  desperate  and  seeks  the  help  of  an  old 
friend, Matthias Nixon, who is learned in magic. Un-
beknownst to Harvey, Nixon is in a state of transition, 
becoming a ghoul. Nixon offers Harvey a bargain: he 
will  help  Harvey,  but  in  return  Harvey  must  supply 
him with a fresh human corpse (problem 4). 

Harvey’s problems are piling up and the clock is 

ticking.

Magic
Magic  is  part  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  and  man  can  never 
fully comprehend it. Each spell has its