, for it 
is known to frequent that place. Y’golonac is known to come 
when its name is read or spoken while evil is present. It is a 
minor god, but malignant.

Cult
Y’golonac has little cult following, but strives mightily after 
more  worship,  entrapping  those  who  are  subtly  evil  to  be 
his priests. Y’Golonac’s notion of evil seems to be a shallow 
one, however.

Other Characteristics
Y’golonac may appear to be a normal, somewhat neurotic 
and flabby human. When he manages to contact a person 
that is debased in evil, the victim is possessed and absorbed 
by the deity and thereafter his shape can change at will from 
the  form  of  the  possessed  individual  to  Y’golonac’s  true 

Y'golonac

To fight off a possession, the target must roll POW or less 
on 1D100 each round to avoid being overcome. Once over-
come, the investigator loses 10 INT and 10 POW each round 
until Y’golonac is forced away or until his soul and mind are 
destroyed  and  replaced  with  Y’golonac’s—and  Y’golonac 
departs only if he loses all his hit points. Y’golonac normally 
attacks  people  who  have  become  aware  of  him,  usually 
through reading at least a page of the Revelations of Gla'aki. 
Y’golonac is clever at getting persons to read passages from 
that horrid book without knowing they have done so.

SIZ 125 

CON 625 

Y'GOLONAC, The Hand that Feeds
STR 125 
POW 140  HP 75
Damage Bonus: +2D6
Build: 3
Magic Points: 28
Move: 10

DEX 70 

INT 150

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting  attacks:  Being  vaguely  humanoid,  Y’Golonac  can  kick 

and punch.

Bite:  In  combat  against  more  than  one  enemy,  Y’golonac  uses 
his mouths to devour and destroy foes. Damage done by the 
mouths does not heal naturally and INT and POW loss is per-
manent, since the suppurating wounds never close.

Fighting 100% (50/20), damage bonus
Bite  100%  (50/20),  damage  1D4  non-healing  damage  and  lose  5 

INT and 5 POW each round 

Armor: None
Spells:  Summon/Bind  and  Contact  spells,  and  whatever  else  the 

Keeper thinks appropriate.

Sanity Loss: 1/1D20 Sanity points to witness human to Y’golonac 

transformation; 1/1D10+1 to see Y’golonac.

Yibb-Tstll

There, about the pulsating black body of the Ancient One, 
hugely winged reptilian creatures without faces cluttered 
and clutched at a multitude of blackly writhing, pendulous 
breasts! The eyes moved quickly, independently—sliding with 
vile viscosity over the whole rotten surface of  
Yibb-Tstll’s pulpy, glistening head!

—Brian Lumley, The Horror at Oakdeene

This horrible deity sees all time and space as it slowly rotates 
in the center of its clearing in the Jungle of Kled, in Earth’s 
Dreamlands. Beneath its billowing cloak are a multitude of 
nightgaunts, suckling and clutching at Yibb-Tstll’s breasts.

Cult
In ancient times Yibb-Tstll was worshiped as the god Yibb, 
however now he has no known cult. 

Yibb-Tstll  is  often  approached  by  individuals—most 
often  sorcerers—who  either  crave  the  use  of  Yibb-Tstll’s 
servitors,