 Talk,  Intimidate,  and  Persuade  Skills: 
Difficulty Levels, page 93. 

Pushing  examples:  getting  up  close  and  personal  to  the 
target;  talking  outlandishly,  aiming  to  confuse  the  target. 
Remember  this  is  Fast  Talk,  so  if  the  investigator  begins 
to  take  an  alternative  approach,  the  Keeper  may  ask  for  a 
different skill to be used; if threats are used, it may become 
Intimidate, or if a protracted discussion ensues, it may be-
come Persuade. Switching from one to the other to gain a 
second roll still constitutes a Pushed roll.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: cause great 
offence leading to violence, outrage, or criminal proceedings. 
If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 

begins hurling random abusive phrases at people. 

Fighting (Specializations) (varies %)
Fighting skill denotes a character’s skill in melee combat. You 
may spend skill points to purchase any skill specialization. 
The  generic  "Fighting"  skill  cannot  be  purchased.  Choose 
fighting  specializations  appropriate  to  your  investigator’s 
occupation and history.

Those  starting  with  a  Fighting  (Brawl)  skill  of  50%  or 
higher may wish to choose a type of formal training as part 
of their background to account for his or her skill level. A 
myriad of fighting styles exist. Martial arts are simply a way 
of developing a person’s Fighting skill. Decide how the char-
acter learned to fight, whether it be formal military training, 
martial  arts  classes,  or  learned  the  hard  way  as  a  result  of 
street-fighting.  The  term  brawl  might  feel  too  crude  for  a 
skilled  martial  artist  and  could  be  replaced  (with  "Karate" 
for example) if a player so wished.

Note: as a combat skill, this cannot be pushed.

Fighting specializations:

Brawl  (25%):  includes  all  unarmed  fighting  and  basic 
weapons that anyone could pick up and make use of, such as 
clubs (up to cricket bats or baseball bats), knives, and many 
improvised weapons, such as bottles and chair legs. To de-
termine the damage done with an improvised weapon, the 
Keeper should refer to the weapon chart and pick something 
comparable.

Chainsaw  (10%):  the  first  gasoline-powered,  mass-pro-
duced chainsaw appeared in 1927; however, earlier versions 
existed. 

Flail (10%): nunchaku, morning stars, and similar medieval 
weapons.

Garrote  (15%):  any  length  of  material  used  to  strangle. 
Requires the victim to make a Fighting Maneuver to escape, 
or suffer 1D6 damage per round.

Spear (20%): lances and spears. If thrown, use Throw skill.

Sword (20%): all blades over two feet in length.

Whip (05%): bolas and whips.

Note: Thrown knives use the Throw skill.

Weapons  and  their  skill  categories  are  listed  in  Table 
XVII: Weapons (pages 401-405). The above specializations 
may  not  cover  all  weapons,  but  where  possible  try  to  fit 
other weapons into one of the above categories. Chainsaw is 
included as a weapon because of its use in numerous films, 
but players should note that the chance of a fumble is dou-
bled and that they risk killing their investigator (or losing a 
limb) should this happen.

Firearms (Specializations) (varies %)
Covers all manner of firearms, as well as bows and crossbows. 
You  may  spend  skill  points 