 they  are  pulling  back 
and firing the gun when it comes to their 
turn. A goal should be something definite 
such as, “I’m knocking the gun from his 
hand”, “I’m seizing the pistol from him”, 
or “I’m grabbing the gun arm and keeping it 
pointed away from me”. Each of these has 
a  definite  effect  on  the  status  quo  and 
thus constitutes a goal.

Maneuver attack roll:
T  If the target is dodging: the attacker’s Fighting skill 
is opposed by the target’s Dodge skill. If the charac-
ter performing the maneuver achieves a higher level 
of success than the character dodging, the maneuver 
is successful (if tied, the target is able to dodge the 
maneuver).

T  If the target is fighting back: the attacker’s Fighting 
skill is opposed by the target’s Fighting skill. If the 
character  fighting  back  achieves  a  higher  level  of 
success, the maneuver fails and the opponent inflicts 
damage on the character performing the maneuver 
(if tied, the maneuver is successful). 

T  The target of an attack may use a maneuver of their own: 
Resolve as for fighting back, but instead of inflicting 
damage, apply the effect of their maneuver.

A  successful  maneuver  allows  the  character  to  achieve 

one goal, such as:

T  Disarming an opponent, or wresting an item such as 

a book out of the opponent’s hand.

T  Place the enemy at an on-going disadvantage, either 
inflicting one penalty die on the opponent’s future 
actions or granting one bonus die to allies’ actions 
taken  against  the  target  (choose  whichever  seems 
most  appropriate  to  the  situation).  This  disadvan-
tage  may  be  as  a  result  of  physical  restraint  or  of 
having been knocked to the floor. 

T To escape when physically restrained by another char-
acter. The restrained character may use a maneuver 
of their own on their turn to break out of a hold, such 
as a bear hug or neck lock; otherwise they are auto-
matically  held  until  their  attacker  releases  them,  is 
incapacitated or suffers a major wound (see Wounds 
and Healing, page 119).
T  Pushing  an  opponent  over  a  cliff,  out  of  a  large 
window or simply knocking the opponent to the floor.

The Keeper may inflict damage on those engaged 
in a maneuver if it is appropriate to the events in the 
story—clearly  someone  falling  from  a  second  story 
window is going to take damage unless they land in a 
safety net or similar.

Striking the First Blow (Surprise)
Something must happen to start a combat; someone 
must strike the first blow. Opponents may square up 
to  each  other  like  two  boxers  in  the  ring,  knowing 
they are engaged in a fight even before the first punch 
is thrown. If this is the case, the Keeper should start 
a combat round. 

Alternatively the attack may be a complete sur-
prise;  a  sudden  knee  to  the  groin  or  punch  to  the 
jaw, for example. When someone states that they are 
making  a  sudden,  unexpected  attack,  they  should 

106 

Call of Cthulhuhave  the  opportunity  to  surprise  their  opponent.  If  the 
Keeper were to automatically switch to combat rounds (see 
below), the person who declared the first attack may end up 
acting last in the DEX order, which would make no narrative 
sense. 

Of course if the target has their wits about them, they 
may  see  the  attack  coming.  The  Keeper  may  allow  a  skill 
roll to determine if the target anticipates the attack, using 
either  Listen  or  Spot  Hidden  to  hear  or  see  it  coming,  or 
Psychology to perceive the attacker’s intent. The Stealth