 beaten  unconscious  by  punches 
(each  doing  a  small  amount  of  damage)  may  awaken  the 
next  day  battered  and  bruised  but  able  to  act.  However, 
someone  who  takes  the  same  total  amount  of  harm  in  a 
single attack, such as a gunshot, might be out of action for 
a week or more before the slow healing process even begins. 
A  punch  is  likely  to  result  in  regular  damage,  whereas  a 
gunshot is more likely to inflict a major wound.

If the damage from a single attack is:
T  Less than half the character’s maximum hit points, 

it is regular damage.

T  Equal to or more than half the character’s maximum 

hit points, it is a Major Wound.

T  More than the character’s maximum hit points, the 

result is death.

Regular Damage: The Effects 
Regular damage is the result of any single attack that deals 
damage equal to less than half the character’s maximum hit 
points  in  a  single  blow.  It  has  no  significant  effect  on  the 

119 

chapter 6: combatcharacter until current hit points are reduced to zero, when 
the character will become unconscious. A character cannot 
die as a result of regular damage.

Major Wound: The Effects 
A Major Wound results when an attack delivers an amount 
of  damage  equal  to  or  greater  than  half  of  the  character’s 
maximum hit points in a single attack. A character that has 
received a major wound may die if their current hit points 
are reduced to zero.

When a character takes a major wound:
T  Tick the Major Wound box. 
T  The character immediately falls prone. 
T  Make a successful CON roll to avoid the character 

falling unconscious.

T  If  current  hit  points  fall  to  zero  while  the  Major 
Wound  box  is  ticked,  the  character  is  dying  (see 
Dying, ne).

Harvey has 15 hit points. Damage of 8 or more will 
inflict a Major Wound. 

Harvey is attacked by a mad cultist and, over the 
course of the fight, takes 3 damage, then 8 damage. 
His  current  hit  points  are  down  to  4.  The  Major 
Wound  knocks  him  to  the  floor.  He  is  required  to 
make a CON roll for the Major Wound and does so 
successfully, remaining conscious. 

Zero Hit Points: The Effects
Cumulative  damage  ceases  to  be  tracked  once  current  hit 
points have fallen to zero; do not record negative hit points. 
On zero hit points the character is unconscious. 

Further  damage  is  generally  ignored,  but  any  sincere 

attempt to kill an unconscious character should succeed.

Zero  hit  points  can  indicate  one  of  three  conditions 

(akin to the triage model):

T  If only regular damage has been taken, the character 

does not die and will heal in time.

T  If  the  character  has  taken  a  Major  Wound,  the 
character will soon die unless First Aid is adminis-
tered (see Dying). If an uninjured character takes a 
wound  that  is  equal  to  their  maximum  hit  points, 
this would be a major wound.

T  If an amount of damage greater than the character’s 
maximum  hit  points  is  taken  in  one  attack  then 
death is inevitable.

"Argh...I can't reach it"

First Aid
To  be  effective,  First  Aid  must  be  delivered  within  one 
hour,  in  which  case  it  grants  1  hit  point  recovery.  It  may 
be  attempted  once,  with  subsequent  attempts  constituting 
a Pushed roll. Two people can