 
perhaps thinking the changes are caused by the slow creep of 
a dreadful disease or the results of insanity and delusion.

Family  bloodlines  carry  “memories”  and  taints.  De-
scendants cannot escape the stain of evil crimes committed 
by  their  forebears;  unwittingly,  they  begin  to  mirror  such 
dark deeds. Exposure to the Mythos drains not only sanity 
but also humanity. Those who repeatedly risk contact with 
things not of this world may become corrupted, losing their 
faith and mind. What lengths would such a person go to? 

The world around us is decaying. Walk any street, look 
at the signs in the window, look into the eyes of strangers on 
the street corners. The end is near. What hope is left? Every-
thing good crumbles away and is replaced with a mocking, 
choking darkness.

Suggested reading: The Rats in the Walls, The Lurking Fear, 
The Shadow Over Innsmouth, The Colour Out of Space. 

Cosmic Horror…the Nightmare of 
Reality, the Place of Humanity, the 
Cold Universe
At the start of the twentieth century, humanity’s increased 
reliance  upon  science  was  both  opening  new  worlds  and 
solidifying the manners by which they could be understood. 
Lovecraft  portrays  this  scientific  potential  as  a  terrifying 
hole in man's understanding of the universe. 

The cosmos is uncaring and humanity is but a speck of 
dust,  inconsequential.  Mankind  is  simply,  at  best,  sport  for 
those from outside to prey upon. The universe is a dark place 
that mocks humanity’s feeble attempts to understand it. 

The  quest  for  the  unknown  is  the  pursuit  of  madness. 
Strange  experiments  gone  wrong  (or  right!)  and  the  con-
struction of devices that lift the veil of mankind’s ignorance 
lead such explorers into darkest and most terrifying realms 
of reality and possibility. Man was not meant to know such 

things and those who seek for the unknown return “changed.” 
The very biology and composition of Mythos creatures is be-
yond man’s ability to know and understand. It is dangerous to 
become exposed to such matter; even being in the presence of 
such creatures and their technology is anathema to humans, 
causing headaches, pain, and a pervading dread.

Suggested reading:  The  Dreams  in  the Witch  House,  From 
Beyond, At the Mountains of Madness.

Of course, Lovecraft didn’t confine himself to Cthulhu 
Mythos  stories  and  neither  should  you.  Gain  inspiration 
from  other  writers,  television,  films  and  folklore.  Let  your 
imagination roam.

Opening Scene
Every journey starts with a first step. The start of a scenario 
establishes  the  premise  by  which  the  investigators  become 
involved and effectively provides the players with their ini-
tial direction of investigation and research. 

Don’t miss the opportunity to hook the players’ interest 
from the first with an exciting or intriguing opening scene. 
Ensure  that  it  is  thoroughly  engaging  and  something  the 
investigators can’t ignore.

Your  scenario  begins  with  the  players  learning  about 
a  murder  through  newspaper  reports.  Could  this  be 
made more engaging? What if one of the investigators 
discovered the mangled corpse while walking his dog. 
Consider what the investigator’s reaction might be? Is 
the scene challenging enough? Could it be ignored by 
the player? The example is unpleasant, but might not 
lead  anywhere  beyond  the  investigator  inspecting  the 
scene for clues and calling the police. What if the victim 
is known to the investigator and able to talk for a brief 
time before dying? What if the victim is someone the 
investigator would be glad to see the back of? Perhaps 
someone  to  whom  the  investigator  is  in  debt?  Take 