 his  withdrawal  from 
high school in 1905 and again in 1908. Lovecraft, two and 
a half years short of graduation, never returned. Lovecraft 
never held a job, supporting himself on the dwindling fam-
ily fortune and by what little he could earn as a ghostwriter 
and  revisionist. Always  the  aristocrat,  he  was  throughout 
his  life  to  remain  torn  between  the  professional  writer’s 
desire  for  success  and  money  and  the  detached,  amateur 

gentleman’s  desire  to  reach  for  aesthetic  goals  unfettered 
by commercial demands. Despite this, his first attempts to 
sell his fiction met with unqualified success, with the editor 
of Weird Tales, Edwin Baird, accepting the first five stories 
sent to him by Lovecraft. His stories appeared in nine of 
eleven issues published between late 1923 and early 1925. 
When the editorship of Weird Tales passed to the hands of 
Farnsworth Wright, Lovecraft’s fortunes changed. Wright, 
an able editor, possessed a blind spot regarding Lovecraft’s 
work  and  now  HPL  more  often  met  with  rejection  than 
success. Stories now considered classics, such as "The Call 
of  Cthulhu",  were  only  published  after  meeting  repeated 
rejections  from Weird Tales.  His  half-hearted  attempts  to 
provide  what  Wright  demanded  of  commercial  fiction 
were only partially successful. Wright rejected both "At the 
Mountains of Madness" and "The Shadow Out of Time", 
now-famous  stories  that  were  eventually  printed  by  As-
tounding Stories. The superb "The Case of Charles Dexter 
Ward"  didn’t  see  publication  until  years  after  Lovecraft’s 
death. Crushed by the repeated rejections, Lovecraft began 
refusing  to  submit  his  stories,  and  "Dreams  in  the Witch 
House" only saw print because a friend (August Derleth) 
secretly submitted it to Wright, urging him to accept it.

Ironically, it was during this time that HPL was doing 
the  bulk  of  his  professionally  published  revision  work, 
much  of  it  no  less  than  actual  ghostwriting.  Lovecraft 
might provide a nearly complete text of a story based on 
a  few  root  ideas  supplied  by  the  “author”.  Stories  such 
as  Zealia  Bishop’s “The  Curse  of  Yig”  and  Hazel  Heald’s 
“The  Horror  in  the  Museum”  were  in  fact  90%  or  more 
the product of HPL. While these stories were quickly ac-
cepted  by  Wright,  Lovecraft’s  work  under  his  own  name 
continued to be rejected.

Although he attracted a small core of avid fans—many 
of  them  writers  themselves—he  never  achieved  more 
than  semi-regular  publication  in  the  pulp  magazines  of 
the  day.  Never  as  popular  as  writers  like  Seabury  Quinn, 
Lovecraft earned most of his meager income revising and 
rewriting  the  works  of  others,  even  ghostwriting “Under 
the  Pyramids”  (1924)  for  escape  artist  Harry  Houdini.  It 
was through publication in amateur magazines, and later 
in  Weird  Tales,  that  Lovecraft  was  to  come  into  contact 
with other authors of the macabre tale.

Lovecraft  was  a  prodigious  letter  writer;  he  regularly 
corresponded with other fiction writers, including Robert 
E. Howard (creator of Conan the Barbarian), Clark Ashton 
Smith  (creator  of  Averoigne  and  Zothique)  and  Robert 
Bloch 