iculty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  routine  dives  using  correct  and 

well-maintained equipment.

i  Hard  difficulty:  diving  in  dangerous  conditions  or 

with poorly maintained equipment.

Pushing  examples:  pushing  the  limits  of  the  equipment; 
methodically  double-checking  equipment;  gaining  profes-
sional assistance.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  become 
trapped  underwater;  attacked  by  sea  creatures;  suffer  the 
bends.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she be-
gins to understand whale-song; all you have to do is follow 
their instructions.

62 

Call of CthulhuDodge (half DEX%)
Allows an investigator to instinctively evade blows, thrown 
missiles and so forth. A character may attempt to use dodge 
any  number  of  times  in  a  combat  round  (but  only  once 
against a specific attack; see Chapter 6: Combat). Dodge can 
increase  through  experience,  like  other  skills.  If  an  attack 
can be seen, a character can try to dodge it. It is impossible 
to dodge bullets because they cannot be seen when in mo-
tion; the best a character can do is to take evasive action that 
results in being harder to hit (“diving for cover”).

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
The Dodge skill is mostly used in combat as part of an op-
posed roll and so no difficulty level is set. 

Note: as a combat skill, this cannot be pushed.

Drive Auto (20%)
Anyone with this skill can drive a car or light truck, make 
ordinary  maneuvers,  and  cope  with  ordinary  vehicle 
problems. If the investigator wants to lose a pursuer or tail 
someone, a Drive roll would be appropriate.

Some  other  cultures  might  replace  this  skill  with  a 
comparative  one;  the  Inuit  might  use  Drive  Dogsled,  or  a 
Victorian might use Drive Carriage.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  to  successfully  weave  through 

light traffic at speed to avoid pursuit.

i  Hard difficulty: to successfully weave through heavy 

traffic at speed to avoid pursuit.

Pushing examples: driving the vehicle to its limit; not slow-
ing down, regardless of the risk.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  crashing; 
skidding to a halt, unable to proceed; being pursued by the 
police.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she will 
be found behind the wheel of a stationary vehicle making 
"brum-brum" noises.

Electrical Repair (10%)
Enables  the  investigator  to  repair  or  reconfigure  electrical 
equipment,  such  as  auto  ignitions,  electric  motors,  fuse 
boxes, and burglar alarms. In the present day, this skill has 
little to do with Electronics. To fix an electrical device may 
require special parts or tools. Jobs in the 1920s may call for 
this skill and for Mechanical Repair in combination.

Electrical  Repair  may  also  be  used  in  conjunction  with 
modern explosives, such as blasting caps, C-4 plastic explo-
sives, and mines. These weapons are designed to be easy to de-
ploy; only a fumble result will lead to misfire (remember the 
roll can be Pushed). Defusing explosives is far trickier, as they 
may be fitted with anti-tamper mechanisms; raise the level of 
difficulty when disarming explosives—see Demolitions skill.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: repairing or creating a standard 

electrical device.

i  Hard  difficulty:  repairing  something  that  is  badly 
damaged; working without the proper tools. 

Pushing  examples:  taking  longer  to  repair  or  reconfigure 
the equipment; taking a