. Skills can 
be checked again during the next game session as they are 
used successfully.

Note: The Cthulhu Mythos and Credit Rating skills nev-
er receive a skill check, and no box for such a check exists 
on the investigator sheet. Not improving a skill has no other 
consequence. 

A game has finished after a couple of sessions of play, 
and Harvey has checks against several skills. Harvey’s 
player rolls against his Stealth skill of 20%. She rolls 
08, and so Harvey does not improve in this ability. She 
then rolls Library Use (55%) for a result of 68—Har-
vey’s skill has improved. 1D10 is rolled, giving a result 
of 3. Harvey’s Library Use rises to 58%.

Skills of 90% or More
When an investigator attains 90% or more ability in a skill 
during an investigator development phase, add 2D6 points 
to their current Sanity. This reward represents the discipline 
and self-esteem gained in mastering a skill.

94 

Call of CthulhuCecil  has  a  Sword  skill  of  85%.  Having  successfully 
employed  the  skill  in  play,  a  check  is  made  for  im-
provement  in  the  skill  during  the  investigator  de-
velopment phase. Cecil’s player rolls 97, and so rolls 
1D10, adding 8 points to the skill. Cecil is now a true 
expert swordsman and gains 2D6 Sanity points. 

Other Activities During the  
Investigator Development Phase
During the investigator development phase, the player also 
has the opportunity to:

T  Gain Sanity points through their investigator spend-
ing  time  with  an  aspect  from  their  own  backstory 
(see Self-help, page 167).

T  Check their Credit Rating and review their finances 
(see  Investigator  Development  Phase:  Employ-
ment and Credit Rating, page 96).

T  Reduce all sanity limits by one (see Getting used to 

the Awfulness, page 169).

Altering an Investigator’s Backstory
A player is free to alter or add background entries on their 
investigator sheet as and when they please, subject to certain 
limitations. The player may not erase or alter entries listed 
under Injuries and Scars, Phobias and Manias, Encounters 
with Strange Entities, or anything that has been amended or 
added by the Keeper without the Keeper’s permission.

Phobias and manias may only be erased through the use 

of treatment (see Psychotherapy, page 167).

The  investigator’s  key  connection  (see  page  45)  may  be 
altered only during the investigator development phase, and 
only by the player. Guidance on using, losing, and replacing a 
key connection can be found under Self-help (see page 167).

Credit Rating and  
Investigator Expenditure
Attempting to track personal finances in a manner similar 
to  real  life  within  the  game  would  introduce  unnecessary 
complexity.  However,  using  a  slightly  abstracted  method, 
a  gauge  of  an  investigator’s  living  standard  and  spending 
power becomes possible.

An  investigator’s  starting  Credit  Rating  (CR)  is  deter-
mined  during  character  creation,  based  upon  the  investi-
gator’s  chosen  profession  (see  Sample  Occupations  pages 
40-41). 

Day-to-Day Expenses and General 
Living Standards
There is no requirement to make any account of accommoda-
tion, food, or incidental travel expenses, so long as an investi-
gator’s expenditure falls within the bounds of his or her living 
standard (see Credit Rating, page 61). In addition, a character 
can spend up to his or her Spending Level on any given day.

It is likely that money will only occasionally become an 
issue in play, when large amounts are being spent. This may 
include  preparing  for  a  major  trip,  purchasing  expensive 
items such as a vehicle or