 appropriate location. 

A character who joins a chase as a pursuer needs a MOV 
rate that is at least equal to the slowest fleeing character. If 
they fail to achieve this, they can be ignored.

If a character joining a chase as a fleeing character has a 
MOV rate that is slower than the previously slowest member of 
the chase, some adjustment is required: the number of move-
ment actions that everyone in the chase has should be recal-
culated. Every character gets one movement action by default, 
plus one movement action for each point by which their MOV 
rate exceeds that of the new slowest participant in the chase. 

There  is  no  need  to  recalculate  speeds  or  movement 

actions when a character leaves a chase. 

142 

Call of CthulhuA Hunting Horror chases two cars on a mountain road.

Switching Between Modes of Movement 
There  are  a  variety  of  modes  of  movement  in  the  game. 
Some  creatures  have  alternate  speeds  listed  for  flying  or 
swimming. If no alternate MOV rating is listed, the Keeper 
may allow the character to use half of their standard MOV, 
providing the mode of movement is one that the character 
can perform. Thus a human with MOV 8 would have MOV 
4 when swimming, but would not have a MOV rating for 
flying. 

When characters change between modes of movement 
that continue to use their own physical body for propulsion, 
a fresh speed roll is not required. Simply adjust their MOV 
accordingly, remembering that they may be at either +1 or 
-1, depending on whether they achieved an Extreme success 
on or failed their speed roll (CON) at the start of the chase 
(see Establishing the Chase, page 132).

Characters  that  switch  from  being  on  foot  (or  other 
self-propelled mode) to driving a car should make a fresh speed 
roll using Drive Auto skill. When a character becomes a pedes-
trian, he or she should make a fresh speed roll using CON. 

If the character’s speed (MOV) is changed, their number 
of movement actions should be altered. Refer to Characters 
Joining a Chase in Progress (see page 142).

Characters Creating Hazards
Investigators,  monsters  and  non-player  characters  may 
create hazards or barriers through their actions during play. 
Doing  so  will  usually  require  the  expenditure  of  a  move-
ment action (for the time required), a skill roll (to achieve 
it) or both. The following ideas are examples of what might 
be  attempted,  and  the  Keeper  should  judge  each  situation 
on its own merits.

G  Pausing to secure a door with a bolt or key would 

cost 1 movement action but no skill roll.

G  Pausing  to  secure  a  door  using  Locksmith  skill 
would require a whole chase round and a successful 
skill roll.

G  Moving  a  heavy  wardrobe  against  a  door  would 

require a STR roll and a movement action.

G  Upending  a  fruit  stall  to  cause  a  delay  might  only 

cost 1 movement action.

G  Firing a gun to cause a crowd to panic would require 
a Luck roll. If failed, the action causes more trouble 
than it is worth. If successful, the crowd presents a 
hazard for those following.

143 

chapter 7: chasesG  Yelling, “Stop that man, he’s a thief,” at bystanders, 
hoping they might assist, would call for a Fast Talk 
or Intimidate skill roll.

Harvey is on the run in the streets of New York. To reach 
the next location he must push through a crowd, which 
presents  a  hazard.  If  he  fails  his  DEX  roll  to  weave 
through the crowd, the Keeper rules that Harvey will 
be  slowed  for  1D3  movement  actions.  Harvey  would 
only  take  damage  if  he  f