 able to hold the rock above his head for 
longer  than  Harrison.  The  cultists  jeer  and  lead 
Harrison off towards their altar.

Call of Cthulhuskill (whichever is higher). Thus, if the opposing skill is 50% 
or higher, a Hard success is required (a roll equal to or below 
half skill). If the opposing skill is 90% or higher, an Extreme 
success  if  required  (a  roll  equal  to  or  below  one-fifth  of 
skill). For the vast majority of non-player characters, these 
skills will be below 50%, and so the difficulty level will be 
Regular and the player only needs a regular success.

i  If  the  non-player  character  is  positively  inclined 
towards the player’s goal, don’t bother rolling dice, 
but simply have them agree. 

i  If the non-player character lacks strong feelings to-
wards the player’s goal then no modification to the 
difficulty level is required.

i  If  the  non-player  character  is  strongly  opposed  to 
the  player’s  goal,  the  difficulty  is  raised  by  one  or 
two levels.

i  If  the  player  comes  up  with  something  to  support 
their case, such as a substantive argument (if using 
Persuade), or is holding a weapon and is clearly will-
ing to use it (in the case of Intimidate), the Keeper 
should lower the difficulty by one level.

The lowest chance of success requires an Extreme success 
(equal to or below one-fifth of the skill), but in some rare 
circumstances the Keeper may rule that there is no chance 
of success and that no roll is allowed.

Brian’s  investigator  is  trying  to  intimidate  a  cultist 
into  revealing  the  name  of  the  cult’s  contact  in  the 
police force. The cultist is a doctor by profession, and 
the  Keeper  decides  that  the  doctor’s  Intimidation 
and  Psychology  skills  are  below  50%.  The  difficulty 
level therefore begins as Regular. Of course the cultist 
strongly desires not to reveal his contact, and so the 
Keeper  increases  the  difficulty  level  by  two  steps  to 
Extreme. 

Brian fails the skill roll.  Brian seeks to push the 
roll by threatening violence. He pulls out a crowbar, 
swings  it  near  the  doctor’s  head  and  then  looks  the 
doctor  straight  in  the  eye  to  make  sure  that  he  un-
derstands the implied threat. The Keeper lowers the 
difficulty  level  to  Hard.  Brian  fails  the  pushed  roll, 
and  the  Keeper  tells  how  Brian  gets  carried  away 
and, in his frustration, hits the doctor’s head with the 
crowbar, causing a nasty injury. Brian did not intend 
this—it  was  the  consequence  of  failing  the  pushed 
roll. Things don’t always go as intended! If the player 
had  succeeded  in  the  Intimidation  roll,  the  Keeper 
would be compelled to give up the name of the contact 
(as it was the player’s goal), but as the roll was failed, 
it is now entirely up to the Keeper whether the doctor 
is  forthcoming,  regardless  of  any  further  action  the 
investigators may take against him.

"I'm coming in!"

simultaneously  is  10%.  If  two  separate  rolls  were  made, 
first against Mechanical Repair and then against Electrical 
Repair, the chance of succeeding in both would be 1%.

The  Keeper  must  decide  whether  a  situation  calls  for 

sequential skill rolls or a combined skill roll.

A deranged cultist suddenly moves to draw a gun on 
Harvey.  A  successful  Spot  Hidden  roll  would  allow 
Harvey to see the cultist