 
of anxiety among Keepers and players alike. A dice roll to 
allow the investigator to gain a clue is all very well, but what 
if  the  players  lose  the  roll?  Do  you  just  ask  them  to  make 
another roll and another until they succeed?

This is where the Idea roll comes in. The players will get 
the clue regardless of whether they pass the Idea roll or not. 
An Idea roll is a highly significant and unusual event in the 
game. The roll determines not if, but how they get the clue. 
The goal of an Idea roll is always “to get the investigation 
back on track”. The Keeper starts by figuring out which was 
the most important clue the players missed and uses this to 
set a difficulty level for the Idea roll as follows. One player 
(whose investigator has the highest INT) then rolls dice for 
the Idea roll:

Running With What the Players 
Throw at You
Your players may well take an approach to the story that you 
have not thought of or planned for. Many Keepers will be 
tempted to block the players’ progress, simply saying no and 
steering the players back towards the story that the Keeper 
has prepared. Instead of that, where possible, try to incor-
porate  the  players’  suggestions,  especially  if  you  can  add 
complications of your own to their contribution. Wherever 
possible you should try to have an attitude of “Yes, and…” 
or “Yes, but…” rather than a flat “No”.

An investigator decides to make a telephone call to the 
local police. The Keeper has three options:

No: The Keeper could tell the players that they are 
the investigators and that it is not in the spirit of the 
game for them to call the police. This is clearly not a 
pleasing option for anyone.

Yes, and…: Rather than blocking the action, the 
Keeper might tell how the phone line is cut off or the 
police station unobtainable, or that only strange un-
earthly voices can be heard on the line.

Yes, but…: Perhaps a policeman turns up prompt-

ly, but he is corrupt and in league with the cult.

The Idea Roll
The players’ perception of the game world is formed by what 
you  tell  them;  they  cannot  perceive  what  is  in  your  head, 
only  what  you  say.  The  players’  next  step  in  a  game  may 
seem obvious to you but elude the players themselves. You 

i If the Keeper never mentioned the clue, the difficulty 
level is Regular (requiring the player to roll equal to 
or less than their investigator’s INT). The likelihood 
of winning this roll is high—it is hardly fair to ex-
pect the players to act on something that they don’t 
know about.

i  If the clue was definitely mentioned (but not em-
phasized), the difficulty level of the Idea roll is Hard. 
The players have had the chance to pick up on this 
clue and missed it. If weeks of real world time have 
passed  since  the  clue  was  mentioned,  you  might 
want to use Regular difficulty level for this. This is 
the default difficulty level for an Idea roll.

i  If  the  clue  was  made  clear  by  the  Keeper  (i.e. 
mentioned  several  times)  or  the  players  discussed 
it  themselves,  the  difficulty  level  of  the  Idea  roll  is 
Extreme. 

The setting of difficulty levels for Idea rolls may appear 
counterintuitive;  the  more  obvious  a  clue  was  made,  the 
more  difficult  the  Idea  roll  is.  The  Keeper  is  not  trying  to 
figure  out  the  likelihood  of  the  investigators  realizing  the 
clue—this  is  something  they  are  incapable  of,  as  fictional 
characters. The Keeper is offering the players a gamble, ask-
ing them to risk the negative consequences to gain the clue. 
A part of