  reaching  permanent 
madness or the forgiving release of death.

Note:  When  he  is  at  less  than  0  hit  points,  the  Great  Old  One’s 
curse is inoperative. Once regenerating to at least +1 hit point, 
petrifaction proceeds normally.

Fighting attacks: Attacks mostly with tentacles.
Fighting  80% (40/16), damage 7D6 
Armor: 10-point hide. Regenerates an additional 10 hit points per 

round.

Spells:  Knows  all  Summon/Bind  spells,  as  well  as  Contact  spells 
for  Great  Old  Ones,  Chthonians,  Deep  Ones,  Flying  Polyps, 
Ghouls, Star-Spawn of Cthulhu, and Sand Dwellers.

Sanity Loss:  1D10/1D100  Sanity  points  to  see  Ghatanothoa,  but 

that’s the least of the investigator’s troubles.

Gla'aki
From an oval body protruded countless thin, pointed spines 
of multi-coloured metal; at the more rounded end of the 
oval a circular, thick-lipped mouth formed the centre of a 
spongy face, from which rose three yellow eyes on thin stalks. 
Around the underside of the body were many white pyramids, 
presumably used for locomotion. The diameter of the body 
must have been ten feet at its least wide…long stalks were 

twisting above it…the shape towered, pulsing and shaking 
with deafening vibration…a spine stiffened toward a victim. 
—Ramsey Campbell, The Inhabitant of the Lake

Gla'aki currently dwells at the bottom of a lake in the Severn 
River  Valley  in  England,  from  whence  it  summons  new 
cultists by a “dream-pull”—the sending of hypnotic dreams 
to potential initiates. Gla'aki is weak now, and without the 
strength drawn from the initiation process, it cannot send 
the dream-pull any distance. When someone comes to live 
nearby it can send the dreams, or it can dispatch servants of 
Gla'aki to capture or guide new initiates.

Cult
Gla'aki  heads  a  particularly  loathsome  cult  in  which  most 
members  are  undead.  On  occasion  living  humans  have 
worshiped  Gla'aki;  however,  currently  the  area  around  his 
lake is deserted.

Other Characteristics
Dream-Pull:  Gla'aki  mainly  uses  the  dream-pull  to  draw 
victims to the lake for initiation. The target’s chance to be 
overwhelmed by the dream is equal to Gla'aki’s magic points 
minus the victim’s magic points on 1D100. For each half-
mile of distance between the victim and Gla'aki’s lair, add 1 
magic point to the victim’s total for the effect of this calcula-
tion. Gla'aki can try once per night, for as many nights as 
desired.

For initiation, the novice stands on the lake shore while 
Gla'aki rises from the deep. Gla'aki drives one of its spines 
into the victim’s chest and then, on the next round, injects 
a fluid into the victim. Normally the spine kills the human 
victim.  The  spine  detaches  from  Gla'aki  and  from  it  grow 
protrusions  through  the  victim’s  body.  When  growth  is 
complete,  in  a  night  or  two,  the  spine  drops  off,  leaving  a 
livid spot that does not bleed and from which emanates a 
network of red lines. The victim is then an undead slave, a 
servant of Gla'aki.
Conditions:  if  the  damage  from  the  spine  fails  to  kill  the 
target  before  the  fluid  is 