 devices is a surefire 
way to dispel any sense of atmosphere.

Suitable  music  playing  low  in  the  background  can  be 
great for establishing a mood. Avoid pop and rock songs as 
familiarity  and  the  sudden  changes  in  tempo  and  volume 
can  work  against  you.  Look  for  atmospheric  classical  mu-
sic  or  soundscapes  of  electronic  music.  Published  music 
especially written for horror roleplaying games can also be 
purchased. Period music (appropriate to the scenario) can 
also help, such as twenties jazz played at a low volume.

Setting the Tone
Consider what sort of game you want to run. You can aim 
for high tension, over-the-top schlock horror, or a pulp-ac-
tion romp. Having said that, the default mode for this game 
is  intended  to  be  horror  with  some  action  scenes  thrown 
into the mix. 

You should decide, as a group, whether the game is to be 
serious or jocular. Comedy and horror are good bedfellows 
and the switch from one to the other is used to great effect in 
many movies. However, too much comedy lessens the horror. 
The way that you act (as Keeper) reinforces or undermines 
the tone. As Keeper, you may find that the players take their 
lead from you, not only in what you say, but how you behave. 
You  may  set  the  scene  and  build  the  pace  and  the  tension, 
only to have a player make a joke remark and for everyone 
to fall about laughing, breaking the tension and ruining the 
atmosphere. Shared jokes and laughing are important, but as 
the game draws to a climax, so too should the horror. 

If you are seeking a more intense gaming experience, talk 
to your players about atmosphere and tell them at the start of 
a gaming session that tonight’s game will be more enjoyable 
for all if you can work together on building and maintaining 

Investigators don't always sleep easy.

a good atmosphere. Some groups use the first 30 minutes of 
a gaming session to share news, tell jokes, and relax—getting 
this all out of the way before the game begins. Try to draw a 
clear line between “social” time and “game” time.

This is a horror game and you can expect players to enjoy 
being scared; however, people have differing views of what is 
acceptable, and these limits should be discussed before play. 
Ask your players if there is anything that they definitely do not 
want to see in the game. The answers can be quite unexpect-
ed;  one  player  may  be  fine  with  everything  except  violence 
to animals, for example. Establish the level of their objection 
and either avoid the topic entirely or use the dramatic effect 
of “fading to black” when it occurs in play.

Distasteful Historical Themes
Distasteful issues may arise during the game. You may feel 
that  your  portrayal  of  fictional  prejudice  and  bigotry  is 
worthy  of  an  Oscar;  however,  another  player  may  find  it 
offensive. The world was a very different place in the 1920s. 
Behaviors most of us would find repugnant today were or-
dinary and acceptable then. Racism, xenophobia, religious 
bias,  and  sexual  discrimination  were  part  of  everyday  life 
and  often  loudly  espoused.  Many  laws  systematically  sup-
ported  segregation  and  discrimination  of  every  sort,  and 
social forces of great power underwrote that legislation.

Scenario authors and Keepers can choose to ignore so-
cial history as not germane, or decide to incorporate specific 
elements  into  their  plots.  Both  approaches  can  be  found 
in published scenarios. Ultimately how you play it is up to 
you and your group, but if you are going to use themes of 
discrimination in the game, it is strongly recommended that 
you discuss the issue early