755 
2775 
10  
35  
170 

rolls
(10D100 ×5)
(1D100+100 ×5)
(1D100+STR ×5)
(1D4 ×5)
(2D6 ×5) 
(10D6 ×5)

DHOLES, Burrowing horrors
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
HP: 353
Average Damage Bonus: enough to flatten a battleship (64D6)
Average Build: 65
Average Magic Points: 35
Move: 15 Crawl/10 Burrow

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: The massive, fast-moving bulk of these things is 
very dangerous for fleshy mortals to approach. A blow from its 
bulk is like being hit by a train. If a dhole crushes an investiga-
tor, death is automatic. With a successful Luck roll, enough can 
be found to bury.

Goo Attack: In lieu of swallowing or crushing a target, a dhole can 
spit  a  gob  of  slimy  goo  from  its  mouth  up  to  a  range  of  2-3 
miles. The goo covers a circular area with a diameter equal to 
1% of the monster’s SIZ in feet: thus a dhole of SIZ 2750 spits 
a glob 27 feet across, big enough to bring down an airplane.
Any  living  thing  struck  by  the  glob  is  stunned  and  engulfed. 
Climbing out of a mass of goo requires an Extreme STR roll; 
make  one  attempt  per  round.  While  buried  in  the  frightful 
slime, the investigator cannot breathe and begins to drown. In 
addition, the caustic slime costs the investigator 1 hit point per 
round her or she is held. Once the victim escapes, the burning 
damage stops.

Engulf: If a dhole swallows (engulfs) someone, it scoops clean an 

area equal in size to the area of its goo attack. 

Fighting 30% (15/6), damage death 
Spit Goo 50% (25/10), damage special 
Engulf 80% (40/16), damage swallowed 
Dodge 6% (3/1)
Armor: Equal one-fifth of the dhole’s POW. 
Sanity Loss: 1D4/1D20 Sanity points to see a dhole.

Dhole

The  great  wizard,  Ay-i-Shak  the  Cunning,  claimed  in 
his blasphemous memoirs that he visited and consorted 
with  the  bholes  in  the  land  of  dream,  learning  that 
these immense beings were the true mothers of dholes. 
Through unfathomable means, the bholes were able to 
send their dhole progeny across space and time to plan-
ets in the Waking World. Ay-i-Shak writes that he was 
barely able to escape with his life from the encounter; 
it was only the timely sacrifice of his young assistant, 
Mamoud, which enabled the wizard to make his escape.

Dimensional Shambler

Shuffling towards him in the darkness was the gigantic, 
blasphemous form of a thing not wholly ape and not wholly 
insect. Its hide hung loosely upon its frame, and its rugose, 
dead-eyed rudiment of a head swayed drunkenly from side to 
side. Its forepaws were extended, with talons spread wide, and 
its whole body was taut with murderous malignity despite its 
utter lack of facial description.
—H.P. Lovecraft and Hazel Heald, The Horror in the Museum

Little  is  known  about  these  beings  save  their  name  and  a 
description  of  a  hide.  It  is  assumed  that  they  are  entities 
capable  of  walking  between  the  planes  and  worlds  of  the 
universe, never spending much time at any one location.

R