 target is flammable).

Burst/Full Auto: Some automatic weapons can be switched 
to fire burst or full auto; such firearms are usually unavailable 
to civilians; prices reflect black-market.

1B, 2B: 1 barrel, 2 barrels.

1/2, 1/3: Can be accurately fired every second or third round.

1 or 2: One or two barrels fireable in same round.

N/A:  Generally  not  commercially  available  (in  auto-fire 
configuration or at all). 

2 yards, 3 yards, etc.: Damage radius of explosion in yards; at 
up to double the range, the damage is halved. At up to triple 
the range, the damage is quartered. Beyond that damage is 
ignored.

* SEE NOTE BELOW: 

Assault Rifle: Use Rifle/Shotgun skill when firing single shot; 
use Submachine skill when firing burst or full auto.

Chainsaw:  Very  awkward  to  use  as  a  weapon;  double  the 
user’s chance of a fumble. Chainsaw fumbles are horrible and 
cause 2D8 harm to the user as the chainsaw is likely to buck up 
towards to user’s head or shoulder, or cut down towards their 
legs or feet. Alternatively the chain can break and connect with 
the user’s body (2D8 damage). A malfunction causes the en-
gine to stall or the chain to jam or become displaced. A major 
wound from a chainsaw severs a random limb.

Dynamite  stick  and  Hand  grenade:  Each  delivers  4D10 
damage to those within 3 yards, 2D10 to those within 6 yards 
and 1D10 to those within 9 yards.

Garrote: Requires the victim to make a Fighting Maneuver 
to  escape  or  suffer  1D6  damage  per  round.  Effective  only 
again human (or similar) opponents.

GE  Mini-Gun:  Gatling  style  heavy  machine  gun,  often 
mounted in helicopters. Hand-firing such a weapon without 
a mount takes minimum Build 2.

Handguns: If firing more than one shot per round all rolls 
are made with one penalty die. Number in brackets denotes 
maximum number of shots that may be fired in one round. 

LAW: Light Antitank Weapon, disposable. 

Mace spray: Do not use the point-blank range rule for this 
weapon. The target should roll one-fifth or less of their DEX 
on 1D100 to avoid being temporarily blinded. Effective only 
against human (or similar) opponents.

Rifles:  Most  rifles  except .45  Martini-Henry  Rifle  and  Col. 
Moran’s  Air  Rifle  fire  1  shot  per  round.  Reloading  is  what 
takes the time, not chambering the round. Assault rifles have 
a fire selector allowing for single shots or 3-round burst or 
full automatic fire. 

Shotguns:  Do  three  levels  of  damage  depending  on  their 
range,  written  as  "short  range/medium  range/long  range." 
Rifles  and  handguns  can  impale,  however  shotguns,  which 
fire a mass of smaller shot, cannot impale (although a shot-
gun loaded with slugs instead of pellets could impale). This 
is not so say that shotguns are not deadly; an extreme level of 
success with a shotgun blast at close range will do 24 damage!

Shotgun solid slugs:  10-gauge  1D10+7,  12-gauge  1D10+6, 
16-gauge 1D10+5, 20-gauge 1D10+4; base ranges 50 yards. 
May impale.

Taser  (Contact  or  Dart):  Affects  only  targets  up  to  Build 
2,  stunned  targets  are  incapacitated  for  1D6  rounds  (or  as