There  may  be  times,  such  as  when  two  investigators  are 
opposing  one  another,  when  you  wish  for  both  sides  to 
roll dice to determine a victor. Opposed rolls are the stan-
dard  for  melee  combat  (see  Chapter 6: Combat).  Outside 
of  combat,  the  Keeper  should  avoid  using  opposed  rolls 
between  non-player  characters  and  investigators.  However 
once a Keeper is accustomed to these rules, he or she may 
wish to use an opposed roll where they feel it will enhance 
the drama.

To make an opposed roll, both sides declare a mutually 
exclusive  goal:  one  will  win,  the  other  will  lose.  Each  side 
selects a skill or a characteristic to use —not necessarily the 
same one—both of which must be approved by the Keeper. 
Both  sides  roll  dice  to  determine  a  level  of  success  by 
comparing their rolls with their chosen skill or characteris-
tic. The Keeper should be aware that characteristics are usu-
ally higher than skills, so where one side uses a characteristic 
the other side should be given the choice of whether to use a 
characteristic or a skill.

Opposed skill rolls cannot be pushed.

90 

Call of CthulhuA skill roll can yield one of six results:

Fumble: the roll is 100. If the roll required for success is less 
than 50, a roll of 96 or over is a fumble.

Failure: the roll is above the character’s skill or characteristic 
(but not a fumble).

In most cases, the Keeper would boost or penalize a roll 
with a single "bonus die" or "penalty die," but where condi-
tions are highly advantageous or dire, a second bonus die or 
penalty die could be applied.
One  bonus  die  and 
one  penalty  die  cancel 
each other out.

Regular success: the roll is equal to or below the character’s 
skill or characteristic.

For each bonus die: 

Hard success: the roll is equal to or below a half of the char-
acter’s skill or characteristic.

Extreme success: the roll is equal to or below a fifth of the 
character’s skill or characteristic.

Critical success: a roll of 01.

Comparing Results:

A Critical success beats an Extreme success.
An Extreme success beats a Hard success.
A Hard success beats a Regular success.
A Regular success beats a Failure or Fumble.

In  the  case  of  a  tie,  the  side  with  the  higher  skill  (or 
characteristic) wins. If still tied, either an impasse has been 
reached or both sides should re-roll.

Harvey gets drawn into a game of chess with Edgar, 
another  investigator.  There  is  nothing  riding  on  the 
outcome  of  the  game,  but  the  players  still  want  to 
know  who  wins.  Both  sides  have  the  goal  ‘to  win’. 
These  goals  are  mutually  exclusive;  if  one  wins  the 
other  must  lose.  The  situation  is  also  irreversible;  if 
Edgar wins, there is nothing Harvey can do to change 
that  (thus  the  roll  cannot  be  pushed).  Neither  has 
‘play chess’ as a skill, so both agree to use INT. Both 
players  roll  a  Regular  success.  Edgar  has  the  higher 
INT, and so wins the game.

Roll  an  additional  "tens" 
percentage  die  alongside 
the  usual  pair  of  percent-
age  dice  when  making 
a  skill  roll.  You  are  now 
rolling three  separate dice: 
one  "units"  die  and  two 
"tens"  dice.  If  you  have  a 
bonus die, you should use the "tens" die that yields the better 
