 of  the 
song into a piece of yellow cloth taken from the court 
of the King in Yellow. Investing 20 magic points into the 
pale material means that the next person to touch the 
cloth suffers the effects of the spell for 10 rounds—the 
victim may attempt to roll equal to or below half their 
POW each round, with success ending the spell’s effects.

Summoning Spells
Cost: variable magic points; 1D4 Sanity points
Casting  time:  5  minutes  per  magic  point  spent,  binding 
takes 1 round.

Such spells concern themselves with alien races and atten-
dants, those monsters that commonly serve greater monsters 
or wizards. The general procedures for these spells are the 
same, but conditions may vary from spell to spell. Knowing 
one such spell is of no use whatsoever in attempting to cast 
another. Unless the Keeper wishes otherwise, the summon 
and  the  bind  portions  of  each  spell  are  learned  together. 
Foolish is the impatient wizard who only learns to summon 
and not to bind.

With  the  exception  of  Summon/Bind  Servitor  of  the 
Outer  Gods,  these  spells  require  the  sacrifice  of  1  magic 
point per 10 percentiles chance for success. For example, 3 
magic points gives a 30% chance for the spell to succeed. In 
general, for each magic point spent, the caster must spend 
five minutes chanting—the greater the chance for success, 
the longer the spell takes to cast. A result of 96-100 is always 
a  failure—a  rolled  result  of  100  should  always  have  bad 
consequences for the wizard concerned.

The  caster  also  loses  1D4  Sanity  points  per  spell  cast, 

whether the spell succeeds or not.

Form of the Command

The caster’s command to the thing must be specific and lim-
ited in duration: “protect me from harm forever,” would not 
be a valid command; however, “slay that man in the corner,” 
would be. The thing is bound to the caster until it fulfills a 
command (a bound thing without a command soon finds a 
way to leave). Orders might include carrying someone some-
where, presiding at some ceremony, being especially docile 
while being examined by a group of professors, appearing 
somewhere as a warning to those assembled—whatever can 
be imagined.

Keep  commands  simple.  The  best  rule  of  thumb  is 
that a command have no more words than one-fifth of the 
thing’s INT. Simple gestures such as pointing will be under-
stood. Assume  that  the  thing  is  always  able  to  understand 
a straightforward command, whether spoken in English or 
Urdu. See also Separate Binding, below.

Summon  Byakhee:  a  whistle  must  be  blown  during  the 
chant.  This  spell  is  active  only  on  nights  when  Aldebaran 
is above the horizon (October through March are the best 
months). The summoned byakhee will flap down out of the 
sky, still icy from its travels through space.

If  the  whistle  is  enchanted,  each  point  of  POW  in  its 
enchantment  adds  2  percentiles  to  the  chance  for  success. 
Such a whistle may be used again and again.

Alternative names: Call into Service Thy Steed, The Mel-

ody that brings the Journeyed. 

Summon Dark Young: brings present a single dark young. 
A beast of at least SIZ 40 must be sacrificed. The summoner 
needs a knife to make certain ritual cuts in dispatching the 
victim. Cast this spell outdoors, in a wood, during the dark 
of  the  moon.  A  dark  young  will  stalk  out  of  the  shadows 
after the summoning.

Alternative names: Envoke the Darke of the Forest, Knife 

Ritual of the Bleeding Bark.

Summon  Dimensional  Shamb