will seize it.

Keeper’s Notes: Stone is ruled by her emotions as much 
as  her  head,  and  as  such  is  more  likely  to  help  the  inves-
tigators  if  she  thinks  they  are  trying  to  solve  the  mystery 
of  Leiter’s  death,  something  she  is  hungry  for  facts  about. 
She’s also susceptible to good old-fashioned bribery for her 
assistance, particularly if the investigators give her enough 
money to flee town. 

The Late Lucy Stone? Stone is in a precarious position; 
she doesn’t know it, but she’s the last living and sane witness 
to Charles Leiter’s activities. Therefore she’s a likely candi-
date  for  death  during  the  course  of  the  scenario,  perhaps 
because  of  the  investigators’  actions  or  the  lack  of  them. 
There are several parties who want what she knows and who 
are  quite  willing  to  dispose  of  her  so  she  cannot  tell  any-
body else her secrets, real or imagined—including Anthony 
Flinders  and  Abner  Wick.  She  could  also  fall  foul  of  the 
Atlantic City mob if they think she’s hiding something from 
them, and last but no means least, the Prisoner of the Pages 
may have her marked for death as well. If this latter doom is 
the case, make sure to have this foreshadowed appropriately 
(see Manifestations on page 379).

Abner Wick, Antiques Dealer and 
Degenerate
Wick is a large, fleshy and somewhat effete man, somewhere 
in his late-forties, who gives the impression of once having 
had a powerful physique now undone by years of indulgent 
living and excess. He has a slight sour odor, masked for the 
main part by his heavy use of cologne, and an underlying 
sickliness to his pallor that suggests some morbidity of the 
flesh, illness, or addiction 
afflicting the man. Wick, 
despite  any  unseemly 
physical  affects,  is  a  dis-
armingly  calm,  assured 
and  cultured  figure  who 
displays  effortless  man-
ners to all and a gentility 
of  a  kind  rarely  found 
in the rush of the 1920’s 
modern  age.  He  will  de-
scribe  himself  modestly 
as  a  "gentlemen  of  some 
small private means who 
dabbles  in  antiques  and 
beautiful old books,” and 
keeps  a  small  antiques 
shop,  called  Unconsid-
ered Trifles, in a side-street in the better quarter of Arkham’s 
commercial district. Like Wick himself, the shop has a rea-
sonable reputation in the trade and any investigators with 
antiquarian interests who hail from Arkham may well have 
visited  it  before,  although  are  unlikely  to  have  met  Wick 
himself as he leaves the day-to-day business of the shop to 
the hired help. So, at least, goes his public façade.

Abner Wick

Facts and Clues

T  Abner Wick conducted business with Charles Leiter 
on  several  occasions,  both  as  a  dealer  and  private 
collector of rare books and manuscripts.

T  He  was  part  of  a  bidding  war  for  the  Witch  Trial 
Papers, which had already reached several thousand 
dollars and threatened to go much higher.

T  Wick desired the papers for himself, however they had 
soon  gone  beyond  his  own  price  range,  although  he 
kept on as an agent for “several other interested par-
ties, with deeper pockets,” whose identities he will not 
disclose and if pressed will simply brand as “foreign.”
T  Wick felt betrayed by Leiter, assuming he had come 
to an arrangement with a buyer other than himself