  accomplished  in  the  art  of 
painting  (oils,  acrylic,  watercolor),  as  well  as  sketching  in 
pencil, crayon or pastels. While serious works of art might 
take many days or months to complete, the artist may quick-
ly sketch accurate impressions, objects and people. The skill 
also denotes a familiarity with the art world, and the artist 
may  be  able  to  determine  a  particular  artist’s  work,  their 
school and known history.

Forgery (05%): Adept  at  fine  detail,  the  user  can  produce 
high quality fake documents, be it a person’s handwriting, a 
bureaucratic form or permit, or a duplicate of a tome. The 
forger will require suitable materials (inks, grades of paper, 
etc.) as well as an original from which to copy. 

A successful roll indicates the forgery will pass a normal, 
cursory inspection. Someone spending time and thoroughly 
examining the forgery would use the Appraise skill (opposed 
by the original forger’s skill) when determining if the fake 
can be spotted.

Photography (05%): Covers both still and motion photog-
raphy.  This  skill  allows  one  to  take  clear  pictures,  develop 
them properly and enhance half-hidden detail. 

In  the  1920s,  the  user  is  able  to  prepare  the  necessary 

chemicals to make flashpowder.

In the present day, the skill extends to cover video cam-
eras,  video  playback  equipment,  digital  photography  and 
digital editing, where the user is adept at the manipulation 
of digital images. Radically different versions can be created 
from an original source, such as changing the location of a 
person in a photograph, who they are with and what they 
are doing. Those proficient may also be able to detect when 
an image has been manipulated.

Regular snapshots do not require a skill roll. Rolls would 
be  required  to  achieve  effective  candid  photographs,  or 
shots  that  capture  fine  detail—especially  at  long  range,  at 
speed or in low light. This skill can also allow the investiga-
tor to determine if a photograph has been tampered with or 
fabricated, as well as the angle and position from which a 
photograph was taken.

Artillery (01%) [Uncommon]
This skill assumes some form of military training and ex-
perience. The user is experienced in the operation of field 
weapons in warfare: able to work in a crew or "detachment" 
to  operate  the  projection  of  munitions  beyond  the  range 
of personal weapons. Many weapons of this nature are too 
large for a single person to operate, and either an individual 
cannot use the weapon without a crew or the difficulty level 
should be raised (at the Keeper’s discretion, dependent on 
the type of weapon employed).

Various  specializations  exist,  depending  on  the  period 
setting of the game, including cannon, howitzer, mortar and 
rocket launcher.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: if the artillery is well maintained 

and used in favorable conditions.

i  Hard difficulty: if the artillery is poorly maintained 

or used in a rush and/or while under fire.

Note: as a combat skill, this cannot be pushed.

Charm (15%)
Charm  takes  many  forms,  including  physical  attraction, 
seduction, flattery or simply warmth of personality. Charm 
may  be  used  to  compel  someone  to  act  in  a  certain  way, 
but  not  in  a  manner  completely  contrary  to  that  person’s 
normal behavior. Charm is opposed by the Charm or Psy-
chology skills.

Charm may be used for bargaining, to haggle the price 
of an item or service down. If successful, the seller is won 
over and they may well reduce the price a little.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: