ity points while experiencing a bout of madness. The mind 
is  completely  unhinged  at  this  point  and  any  subsequent 
horrors are either forgotten or later believed to be a man-
ifestation  of  the  madness.  This  protection  is  limited—the 
bout  of  madness  lasts  1D10  combat  rounds  (real  time)  if 
being played out, but may be longer, in which case the bout 
is summarized by the Keeper.

Each time an investigator suffers a bout of madness, the 
Keeper may amend one of the investigator’s backstory en-
tries or add a new one. These alterations serve two purposes. 
The first is to reflect the investigator’s descent into madness 
by  adding  irrational  entries  or  corrupting  existing  ones. 
Second, entries can be added or altered to reflect events in 
the  story  and  thus  tie  the  investigator  into  the  plot  more 
strongly. The player and Keeper should work together to add 
or revise backstory entries appropriately.

Personal  Description:  Suitable  entries  might  include 
“Wild-eyed,” “Thousand-yard stare,” “World-weary,” or “No 
longer cares for their own appearance”.

Coming to after a Bout of Madness should be disorienting.

156 

Call of CthulhuIdeology/Beliefs: A balanced entry such as “religious” might 
be changed to something more extreme or deranged, such as 
“Unbelievers must be converted or made to suffer”. Alterna-
tively, a new entry that is appropriate to the situation might 
be made, such as “Obsessed with defeating the Cthulhu cult”.

Significant People: A  new  name  might  be  added  together 
with a reason for its inclusion. For example, “Can’t rest until 
Delbert Smith is in his grave,” or “Robin Poole is the incar-
nation of Ganesh.”

Meaningful Locations: The present location might take on 
great significance, or the investigator might become fixated 
on reaching another location for either 
irrational  reasons.  The 
rational  or 
former might be the cult temple in the 
jungle; the latter might be an overpow-
ering desire to visit Graceland.

A Bout of Madness—Real Time
If  the  bout  of  madness  happens  during  a  scene  in  which 
other investigators are present, the bout of madness lasts for 
1D10 combat rounds (note that this is not the full duration 
of the state of insanity—which is 1D10 hours for temporary 
insanity or longer for indefinite insanity). 

The option to play out the bout of madness round-by-
round may be used even when the investigator is alone, or if 
the Keeper thinks it appropriate.

To determine the nature of the bout of madness, either 
roll  on  Table  VII:  Bouts  of  Madness—Real  Time,  or  the 
Keeper may choose an appropriate option.

Treasured  Possessions:  It  is  easy  to 
lose  possessions  while  one’s  mind  is 
disrupted  by  insanity.  Any  possessions 
might be erased or noted as lost. A new 
possession might be acquired and given 
great significance.

Traits:  A  trait  might  be  erased  or  al-
tered  to  something  more  suitable;  for 
example:  “bully,”  “drug  addict,”  “easily 
distracted,” “talks  too  loudly,” “lack  of 
inhibitions.”

Injuries & Scars: These are more usu-
ally altered as a result of major wounds. 

Phobias and Manias: These may result 
from rolls during the bout of madness.

Arcane  Tomes,  Spells  and  Artifacts: 
Such  items  might  be  lost  or  destroyed 
in a fit of pique. The investigator might 
involuntarily  cast  any  spells  that  they 
know, activate artifacts, or study a tome 
that they had previously shunned