 rest break 
in the clearing. It is actually the road used by the truck 
(see Day 2: The Truck, see below). Perhaps the group 
doze off and are awoken as the truck is almost upon 
them. Ask for DEX rolls to clear their equipment from 
the path of the truck.

A wandering servant of Gla'aki spies the investiga-

tors and an assault is planned.

Something  important  is  lost  by  an  investigator. 

Perhaps a rifle, propped against tree and forgotten.

The forest is full of hazards. An investigator might 
fall, be bitten by a snake or insect, suffer bad blisters, 
and so on. 

Day 2: The Truck
The posse stumbles across a trail of tire tracks that have cut 
through the forest floor. Given it’s snaking roughly north-
east, a successful Navigation roll can plot that the track is 
heading into the area north of Somerset. Anyone with local 
knowledge knows there are nothing but trees and the occa-
sional small lake there. 

Shortly  afterwards,  the  posse  hears  the  distant  sound 
of an engine (the same as that possibly heard by those on 
watch the night before). James Stanton is the truck’s driver. 
He’s  one  of  the  engineers  from  Strong’s  survey  team  and 
has recently become a servant of Gla'aki. He is still human 
in appearance, though he has a terrible wound in his chest 
(where one of Gla'aki’s spines was inserted), which he has 

The Artist's Body

concealed under his coat. He’s a little distant and hostile to 
anyone  blocking  his  way,  looking  at  them  sternly  and  de-
manding they get off the trail. Don’t play him as a mindless 
zombie, but he should feel cold and lacking in emotion.

Stanton  will  object  to  the  posse  trying  to  search  the 
truck  but  won’t  actively  try  to  stop  them.  There  are  no 
fugitives within, but there are several crates of dynamite. He 
explains that he’s on the geological survey being headed up 
by Carl White, under the direction of Mr. Strong. 

Stanton claims to know nothing about the kidnapping, 
however  is  interested  to  hear  that  there  might  be  people 
around their camp, so he will keep an eye out for them. He 
won’t take the investigators to the dig site/base  camp,  but 
will say that it would be fine to visit them, “Just follow the 
road and it will get you there eventually.” Unless prevented, 
he then drives off. 

Day 2: The First Kidnapper
A little before dusk, call for Hard Spot Hidden rolls. Those 
succeeding  catch  the  glint  of  light  off  Eugene  Clayton’s 
rifle-scope  from  his  vantage  point  on  a  ridge  up  ahead. A 
group Luck roll determines if Eugene has spotted the inves-
tigators approaching. 

If he has spotted them, Eugene will fire a shot over their 
heads in an effort to scare them off. He only has three shots 
left after this, having used most of his ammunition the pre-
vious night shooting in the darkness at the passing undead 
servant. See Eugene’s profile in the Non-Player Characters 
section, page 361. If he hasn’t spotted them, the investigators 
may attempt to make Stealth rolls to attempt to get the drop 
on him. 

353 

chapter 15: scenariosThe investigators can take cover easily once the warning 
shot  has  been  fired,  but  getting  to  the  kidnapper  without 
being shot would require a successful Stealth roll. A failed 
roll will leave an investigator exposed and possibly a target. 
Any investigator trying to flee the area will not be a target 
for Eugene. 

Any investigators who are caught out in the open trying 
to make a full-frontal assault on Eugene leave him no choice: 
he will try