 this lies the body of one of the artists 
who escaped the raid on their camp (see Day 3: The Artists’ 
Camp, page 355). Seeing the torn-up corpse costs 0/1D3 SAN 
for those not accustomed to the sight of death. 

The male body doesn’t have any identification; however, 
the  overall  he  is  wearing  is  flecked  with  paint.  There  is  a 
(knife)  wound  to  his  side  that  he’s  attempted  to  bandage 
poorly. Medicine or First Aid rolls will determine he bled 
out steadily for the last day or so before finally collapsing. 

The  investigators  should  decide  whether  to  follow  the 
trail made by the dead man back to its origin or to put that 
aside for now and continue hunting Harris. 

Those deciding to follow the dead man’s tracks will need to 
make a Tracking roll and spend the rest of the day searching to 
find the artists’ camp (see Day 3: The artists’ camp, page 355). It 
is at the Keeper’s discretion whether the investigators encounter 
the remaining events of Day 2 (see Day 2: The Truck and Day 2: 
The First Kidnapper) before or after they come upon the camp. 

Day 1: The First Night
Finding a clearing in which to set up camp is relatively easy 
this far into the forest. The investigators can bed down for 
the  night  without  issue,  though  the  Keeper  should  imply 
that danger is ever-present.

Given  the  impending  recovery  of  the  crystal,  Gla'aki’s 
attention is focused on its existing servants and thus is not 
actively  calling  the  investigators  to  become  new  servants. 
However, all within the forest are subject to the psychic dis-
turbance caused by Gla'aki’s presence, manifested through 
bad dreams.

During  the  night,  call  for  POW  rolls.  Those  that  pass 
have uninterrupted sleep and suffer no ill effects. Those fail-
ing the POW roll are susceptible to Gla'aki’s Dream Call and 
should be given a randomly selected Dream Call Handout 
(see page 363). Where noted on the handout, call for a San-
ity  roll  for  each  investigator  affected  (applying  the  Sanity 
point loss as noted). Keep note of which player has received 
which handout. Reflect upon the investigator’s backstories 
and consider weaving some aspect of an investigator’s back-
story into their dream.

352 

Call of CthulhuPushing Skill Rolls in 
the Forest
If the investigators are not willing to give up after hav-
ing  failed  a  skill  roll,  they  may  persevere.  Remember 
that it is up to the players to explain what actions their 
investigator is taking, and for you as Keeper do decide 
if a pushed roll is warranted.

The  consequence  of  failing  a  pushed  roll  should 
always  be  derived  from  the  situation.  Here  are  a  few 
suggestions for consequences of failing pushed rolls in 
the forest:

The  investigators  inadvertently  stumble  upon  a 
lone  black  bear  (see  Bear,  Chapter  14:  Monsters, 
Beasts,  and  Alien  Gods,  page  336)  and  rile  it  with 
their appearance. After inflicting some damage on the 
investigators, the bear flees. 

Another posse hears the investigators pass by their 
camp and take potshots at them, believing them to be 
the kidnappers. This could run very much like Meeting 
the Hunting Party (see page 351).

The investigators set up camp or take a rest break 
in the clearing. It is actually the road used by the truck 
(see Day 2: The Truck, see below). Perhaps the group 
doze off and are awoken as the truck is almost upon 
them. Ask for DEX rolls to clear their equipment from 
the path of the