 regions have returned with strange tales of being 
awoken  at  night  by  vines  seemingly  encroaching  on 
their tents, with some going as far to claim that they 
awoke to find black vines encircling their legs or arms.

Deep One
I think their predominant colour was a greyish-green, though 
they had white bellies. They were mostly shiny and slippery, 
but the ridges of their backs were scaly. Their forms vaguely 
suggested the anthropoid, while their heads were the heads 
of fish, with prodigious bulging eyes that never closed. At the 

averages 
70  
50 
80 
50  
65  
50 

rolls
(4D6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)
(3D6+6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)
(2D6+6 ×5) 
(3D6 ×5)

DEEP ONES, Gilled masters of the deep seas
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
HP: 13
Average Damage Bonus: 1D4
Average Build: 1
Average Magic Points: 10
Move: 8/10 Swimming

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Deep ones can use weapons as humans do. They 

are skilled with their spears and tridents.

Fighting 45% (22/9), damage 1D6 + damage bonus or by weapon 

type (e.g. spear, damage 1D8 + damage bonus)

Dodge 25% (12/5)
Armor: 1-point skin and scales.
Sanity Loss: 0/1D6 Sanity points to see a deep one.

288 

Call of CthulhuFor centuries the deep ones have had to build their fab-
ulous underwater cities, hidden in the deepest oceans 
for no man to see. Occasionally found in the diaries, 
memoirs, or tales of sailors, fishermen, and pearl divers 
are hints and claims of strange jewelry, huge worked 
stones (often encrusted with mother of pearl) and, of 
course, mermaids.

If  collected  together,  such  stories  might  lead  one 
to conclude that certain regions are host to immortal 
deep  one  communities.  Names  such  as  Ahu-Y’hloa, 
Y’ha-nth-lei, and G’ll-oo have been recorded.

Deep One Hybrid

It was a thin, stoop-shouldered man not 
much under six feet tall… His age was 
perhaps thirty-five, but the odd, deep 
creases in the sides of his neck made 
him seem older when one did not 
study his dull, expressionless face. He 
had a narrow head, bulging, watery 
blue eyes that seemed never to wink, 
a flat nose, a receding forehead and 
chin, and singularly underdeveloped 
ears. His long, thick lip and coarse 
pored, greyish cheeks seemed 
almost beardless except for 
some sparse yellow hairs that 
Deep One Hybrid
straggled and curled in irregular patches; and in places the 
surface seemed queerly irregular, as if peeling from some 
cutaneous disease. 

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shadow over Innsmouth

Deep one hybrids are the progeny of deep one and human 
mating. Although the offspring of such unions are usually 
born as normal humans, changes in appearance and physi-
ology tend to occur in late teens—commonly known as the 
"Innsmouth  Look."  By  middle  age,  most  hybrids  display 
some  form  of  gross  deformity  and  such  individuals  retire 
to the privacy of their close-shuttered homes. Within a few 
years, the hybrid undergoes the final transformation into a 
deep one and embarks on a new life in the sea.

The physical changes are accompanied by an awakening 
of new senses, strange dreams of undersea cities, and a long-
ing to visit seaside locales—particularly ancestral homes or 
the individual’s birth place. 

Typically, hybrids inhabit remote coastal villages, how-
ever  they  can