 to the highest value—5 points.

169 

chapter 8: sanityhe  magic  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  stems  from 
the unfathomable alien intelligences that reside 
outside of humanity’s ability to comprehend. 
What may be the pinnacle of science can eas-
ily be interpreted as “magic” by the ignorant. 
What  is  certain  is  that  those  who  delve  into  such  matters 
rarely  come  away  unchanged—usually  for  the  worse!  Ma-
nipulating time and space is not a thing to be done lightly 
and there can be grave consequences for those investigators 
who dabble in things best left alone.

Mythos  magic  is  variable  and  was  not  tightly  defined 
by  H.P.  Lovecraft;  each  occurrence  of  magic  serves  a  par-
ticular story rather than fitting some consistent overarching 
structure.  However,  some  generalizations  can  be  made. 
Mythos magic is traditional in scope, centering on perilous 
summoning  of  horrible  entities  and  the  desperate  manip-
ulation  of  inimical  forces.  Spells  are  formally  constructed; 
one wrong word or gesture can disrupt the spell at best, or 
cause it to go horribly wrong at worst.  

Few Mythos spells can be performed quickly, with many 
requiring  exacting  conditions  as  well  as  lengthy  rites  and 
ceremonies. Each spell must be studied and learned, often 
requiring the investigator to spend long hours poring over 
cryptic manuscripts and ancient books of lore. Though rare 
for investigators, cultists and sorcerers may be taught spells 
by  their  fellows,  or  even  granted  magical  visions,  knowl-
edge,  and  spells  through  abhorrent  communion  with  the 
dark gods of the Cthulhu Mythos. Investigators wishing to 
find a fast track for learning spells are more likely to find a 
one-way ticket to an asylum, their minds broken and sanity 
destroyed. 

Spells must be approached warily, since often their costs 
and  effects  are  initially  unknown  to  the  spell-caster.  For 
investigators, Mythos magic can be a dangerous trap, for in 
using  it  investigators  lose  Sanity  points  and  gain  Cthulhu 
Mythos knowledge—becoming more like those whom they 
seek to defeat. Mythos magic bewilders, shocks, disorients, 
and  debilitates  its  human  practitioners.  Mankind  was  not 
meant to know such things, and with enough exposure the 
psychic and physical contradictions involved in using magic 
drive humans insane.

Investigators will mostly experience magic from outside 
sources, either by being the target or by witnessing the effect 
of  spells  cast  by  someone  else.  An  investigator  rarely  be-
comes a mage, since the requisite knowledge and experience 
usually leads to madness first.

Whether  investigators  gain  much  by  knowing  the 
magic of the Cthulhu Mythos, they often risk much when 
attempting to use it. Spells learned while playing published 
scenarios  may  prove  useful  only  in  the  course  of  a  single 
adventure.  Consequently,  though  all  players  are  invited  to 
study this chapter, it is only Keepers who will benefit most 
from  it  when  planning  adventures  and  creating  suitably 
objectionable adversaries.

In This Chapter
This chapter discusses spells and the books of the Cthulhu 
Mythos—how spells are learned and how they are cast, as 
well as looking at the dark knowledge contained within an-
cient tomes. It also discusses the occult versus the magical, 
and tells ways to increase the POW characteristic.

This chapter does not contain spells. Mythos spells can 

be found in Chapter 12: Grimoire. 

What is Magic?

