uggested  Spells:  (performed  with  full  orchestra)  Call 
Azathoth is cast about midway through the third act.

Monstres and their Kynde
English, author unknown, 16th century
A single folio version of this handwritten book existed and 
that was stolen from the British Museum in 1898. Rumors 
of other copies continue to persist to this day, though none 
has been verified. Contains a jumble of topics drawn from 
the  Necronomicon,  Book  of  Eibon,  and  a  variety  of  other 
tomes.  Many  entities  are  discussed,  including  Cthulhu, 
Yog-Sothoth, and Lloigor, the twin of Zhar. 

Sanity Loss: 1D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +2/+6 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 24
Study: 36 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  Command  Faceless  One  (Summon/
Bind  Nightgaunt),  Command  Ice  Demon  (Sum-
mon/Bind  Byakhee),  Command  Invisible  Servant 
(Summon/Bind  Star  Vampire),  Command  Night 

229 

chapter 11: Tomes of Eldritch LoreNameless Cults

Necronomicon

English, translator unknown, published 1909
An expurgated version of the faulty Bridewell text, published 
by  Golden  Goblin  Press,  New York.  Contains  only  descrip-
tions of spells, not the complete rituals of the earlier editions. 
This edition can possibly be found in used bookstores.

Sanity Loss: 2D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+6 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 27
Study: 30 weeks
Suggested Spells: none

The Necronomicon 
Five versions follow.

Al Azif

Arabic, by Abdul al-Hazrad (Abd al-Azrad), c. 730 AD
Original  form  is  unknown,  but  numerous  manuscript 
versions were long circulated between medieval scholars. As 
early as the 12th century, this version was referred to as lost. 
An immense compendium touching on nearly every aspect of 
the Mythos, and a reference including charts and star maps. 

Sanity Loss: 2D10 
Cthulhu Mythos: +6/+12 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 54
Study: 68 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  Call/Dismiss  Azathoth,  Call/Dismiss 
Cthugha, Call/Dismiss Hastur, Call/Dismiss Nyogtha, 
Call/Dismiss  Shub-Niggurath,  Call/Dismiss Yog-So-
thoth,  Contact  Ghoul,  Contact  Deity/Nyarlathotep, 
Contact  Sand  Dweller,  Dominate,  Dread  Curse  of 
Azathoth,  Dust  of  Suleiman,  Elder  Sign,  Powder  of 
Ibn-Ghazi, Resurrection, Shrivelling, Summon/Bind 
Byakhee,  Summon/Bind  Fire  Vampire,  Summon/
Bind Servitor of the Outer Gods, Voorish Sign.

Necronomicon

Greek, translated by Theodoras Philetas, c. 950 AD
Early  manuscript  versions  are  unknown.  A  small  printing 
in (Florence?) Italy in a folio edition was suppressed by the 
Church; it lacked any drawings, maps, or charts. Last known 
copy burned in Salem, 1692. 

Sanity Loss: 2D10
Cthulhu Mythos: +5/+12 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 51
Study: 68 weeks 
Suggested Spells: same as Al Azif.

Latin, translated by Olaus Wormius, 1228 AD
First circulated in manuscript form, then printed in Germa-
ny (late 15th century) as a black-letter folio. A second, nearly 
identical  edition  was  published  in