 
Dodge 41% (20/8)

Servitor of the Outer Gods

304 

Call of CthulhuArmor: None, but no physical weapon can harm one; spells and 
magical weapons do normal damage; regenerates 3 hit points 
per round until dead.

Sanity Loss: 1/1D10 Sanity points to see a servitor.

Insect from Shaggai

Shaggai, Insects from

Even though they flew so fast I could, with the augmented 
perception of terror, make out many more details than I 
wished. Those huge lidless eyes which stared in hate at me, 
the jointed tendrils which seemed to twist from the head 
in cosmic rhythms, the ten legs, covered with black shining 
tentacles and folded into the pallid underbelly, and the 
semi-circular ridged wings covered with triangular scales—
all this cannot convey the soul-ripping horror of the shape 
which darted at me. I saw the three mouths of the thing move 
moistly, and then it was upon me.
—Ramsey Campbell, The Insects from Shaggai

These para-dimensional insect-beings never feed (if they do 
it is by some strange method such as photosynthesis), and 
they spend their time in decadence, in aesthetic enjoyment 
of abnormality coupled with a lust for causing pain upon 
others  (usually  through  the  torture  of  their  many  slave 
races). 

Shans, as they are also known, are extremely long-lived, 
taking  centuries  to  reach  adulthood.  As  a  race,  they  are 
scientifically advanced, having access to many weapons and 
devices that operate by focused mind-power (magic points). 
The  shan  worship Azathoth  with  many  complex  rites  and 
systems of torment.

Shans  are  now  a  fugitive  race.  Shaggai  itself  was  de-
stroyed by a great catastrophe, however many shan escaped 
in temples made of an indestructible grey metal, teleporting 
them  to  other  worlds,  including  Earth.  However,  Earth’s 
atmosphere  contains  a  certain  a  component  that  prevents 
the shan from teleporting away. This unknown component 
also stops individual shan from flying any great distance.

Trapped, the insect-beings now dwelling on Earth have 
brought slave beings from the planet Xiclotl as guards. Over 
the  centuries  the  shan  have  manipulated  and  possessed 
small  numbers  of  humans  to  advance  their  alien  agenda. 
At  one  time  they  ruled  a  human  witch-cult  dedicated  to 
finding sacrifices for Azathoth, while in more modern times 
it is suggested that they have begun to infiltrate pockets of 
political  power.  The  largest  colony  of  shan  is  rumored  to 
exist near Goatswood, a village of England’s Severn Valley. 

SPECIAL POWERS

Mental Attack: Shans are parasitic and not wholly material. 
One of these  bird-sized creatures can fly right through hu-
man tissue into a target’s brain, wherein it crawls about and 
reads its host’s memories, affects thought processes and in-
jects specific memories and ideas of its own. During the day, 
the  insect  is  not  active  within  the  brain,  leaving  the  victim 
to do more or less as he or she pleases. However at night the 
shan  wakes  and  begins  to  implant  memories—effectively 

pre-programming the host to do its bidding. It can implant 
sanity-destroying  sights,  which  the  insect  has  witnessed,  or 
riddle memory-fragments to entice the victim into perform-
ing certain actions. Eventually the host is so hypnotized that 
he or she gladly (knowingly or unknowingly) helps the shan. 
Often such progressively increasing control causes the victim 
to go raving mad, and thus become an