 and  his  attempts  to  define  Cthulhu  and 
Nyarlathotep  as  elementals—none  will  deny  this  man’s 
tireless efforts in keeping the works of Lovecraft in print 
and available to the public in the decades following HPL’s 
death by founding Arkham House Publishing. 

One  of  Derleth’s  favorite  additions  to  the  Mythos  was 
Hastur, a great being supposedly trapped beneath the Lake 
of  Hali  near  the  city  Carcosa  on  a  planet  circling  the  star 

23 

chapter 2: h.p. Lovecraft and the cthulhu mythosmentioned in “The Hound” (1922), it is here attributed 
to  an  Abdul  Alhazred,  an  Arab  poet  mentioned  in  an 
earlier story, “The Nameless City” (1921). Alhazred was, 
in fact, the boyhood persona of a five-year-old HPL, his 
youthful imagination inflamed by his grandfather’s copy 
of A Thousand and One Arabian Nights. 

Lovecraft  died  in  near  obscurity  in  March  of  1937, 
at the age of 46, a victim of Bright’s disease and virulent 
cancer.  His  mother  had  died  in  1921  after  two  years’ 
confinement  in  the  same  institution  where  his  father 
had  died.  A  brief,  two-year  marriage  accompanied  by 
residence in New York proved disastrous, though divorce 
was never made final, and in 1926 Lovecraft had returned 
home to Providence to live out his years a bachelor, shar-
ing quarters with two aunts.

These last years saw a reduced output of fiction, but 
it was during this period that he produced some of his 
most  memorable  tales.  He  also  found  time  to  travel, 
visiting places that tickled his antiquarian heart: Maine, 
Philadelphia, Quebec, St. Augustine, Charlotte, New Or-
leans,  Salem,  and  Nantucket.  Traveling  by  bus,  sleeping 
in  YMCAs,  eating  crackers,  cheese,  and  canned  beans, 
Lovecraft was able to indulge his personal tastes for trav-
el, history, and antiquity.

Plenty  of  evidence  exists  to  show  that  Lovecraft 
was, by any assessment, an odd individual. Predisposed 
to  hypochondria  and  a  premature  pose  of  old  age,  for 
much of his life he was committed to social and artistic 
views  more  suitable  to  centuries  past  than  the  one  he 
lived  in.  Allergic  to  cold  and  repulsed  by  seafood,  he 
was  also  a  scientist  and  a  philosopher  possessed  of  an 
inquiring mind and sharp wit. Most who came to know 
him during his lifetime were profoundly changed by his 
friendship. Encouraged and enlightened by his erudition 
and no-nonsense philosophies, many went onto achieve 
fame far greater than their mentor ever enjoyed during 
his lifetime. He has the same effect today, generations after 
his death. His name is better known than ever and those 
who  discover  him,  whether  through  his  stories,  through 
films, games, comics, or trading cards, find themselves as 
fascinated by his bizarre creations and nightmare worlds as 
were his contemporaries so many years ago.

After Lovecraft
The 1940s and ‘50s saw a quiet expansion of the Mythos. 
Robert Bloch and James Wade added a few stories to the 
canon;  however,  it  was  August  Derleth  who  contributed 
the  most,  producing  a  number  of  original  tales  as  well 
as  posthumous  collaborations