  gnoph-keh  has  the  power  to  summon  a 
small  blizzard  about  itself,  restricting  visibility  to  3  yards 
maximum. This costs the creature 1 magic point per hour 
and yields a blizzard with a radius of 100 yards. That radius 
may be increased by 100 more yards for every extra magic 
point  expended.  On  the  rare  occasions  that  two  or  more 
gnoph-kehs work together, they may combine their magic 
points to create gigantic blizzards. The blizzard will always 
be centered on the gnoph-keh. 

Every 15 minutes that an investigator spends within such 
a blizzard, the player must make a CON roll or have his or her 
investigator lose 1 hit point to freezing damage (if not properly 
protected against the ice and wind). Note that no recovery of 
hit points may take place while exposed to the blizzard.

Generate Cold: The  gnoph-keh  can  also  create  an  intense 
cold around its body by expending magic points. For each 

Gnoph-Keh

magic  point  the  gnoph-keh  spends,  the  temperature  goes 
down by 20°F for an hour in a 100-yard radius. If the crea-
ture desires, it can combine the cold and blizzard attacks to 
create a terrifying local storm.

Spells: Gnoph-keh have a 75% chance of knowing 1D10 spells.

averages 
155  
110 
155 
70  
75  
105 

rolls
(2D6+24 x5)
(3D6+12 ×5)
(2D6+24 ×5)
(4D6 ×5)
(1D6+12 ×5)
(6D6 ×5)

GNOPH-KEH, Fiends of the ice
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
HP: 26
Average Damage Bonus: +3D6
Average Build: 4
Average Magic Points: 21
Move: 9

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 5 (only 1 Horn Gore per round).
Fighting attacks: The gnoph-keh may attack with its vicious claws 

and tremendous bulk.

Horn Gore: Once per round the gnoph-keh may bring its terrible 

horn to bear on one target.

Fighting 45% (22/9), damage 1D6 + damage bonus 
Horn Gore 65% (32/13), damage 1D10 + damage bonus 
Dodge 35% (17/7)
Armor: 9 points of gristle, fur, and hide.
Sanity Loss: 0/1D10 Sanity points for seeing a gnoph-keh. 

Great Race of Yith

Enormous, iridescent cones, about ten feet high and ten feet 
wide at the base, and made up of some ridgy, scaly, semi-elastic 
matter. From their apexes projected four flexible, cylindrical 
members, each a foot thick, and of a ridgy substance like that of 
the cones themselves. These members were sometimes contracted 
almost to nothing, and sometimes extended to any distance 
up to about ten feet. Terminating two of them were enormous 
claws or nippers. At the end of a third were four red trumpet-like 
appendages. The fourth terminated in an irregular yellowish 
globe some two feet in diameter and having three great dark 
eyes ranged along its central circumference... Surmounting this 
head were four slender grey stalks bearing flowerlike appendages, 
whilst from its nether side dangled eight greenish antennae or 
tentacles. The great base of the central cone was ringed with a 
rubbery grey substance which moved the whole entity  
through expansion and contraction.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shadow Out of Time

A species of time-traveling mental entities, fleeing their 
own  world’s  destruction.  They  came  to  Earth  and 
took over the minds and bodies of the cone-shaped 
beings  dwelling  here.  The  combination 