 farmer lands on his feet 
or his back. The DEX roll is failed; the farmer suffers 
a “minor injury” for 3 (1D3) points of damage, and 
1 (1D3) from his movement action. The farmer has 
landed  on  his  back  and  takes  a  few  moments  to  get 
up. This is the end of the farmer’s turn; he has used 
his 2 movement actions for the round (1 to initiate the 
attack, 1 as part of the cost of the fighting maneuver 
used on him). 
The Keeper’s map of the chase:

If  a  character  is  attacked  with  a  vehicle,  that  character 
may fight back or dodge. Successfully fighting back allows 
the target character to avoid an attack and simultaneously 
land one of their own. An investigator’s attack on a vehicle 
is likely to be relatively ineffective; on the other hand, if it is 
dark young that is fighting back against a vehicle, it may be 
a different story.

Hazards:

Start of 
the Round:

End of 
the Round:

138 

fence

Harvey
Farmer

Harvey

Farmer

Call of CthulhuA cultist truck driver is using his Drive Auto skill to 
perform a fighting maneuver, aiming to push Harvey’s 
car off the road. Harvey is trying to avoid the truck, 
using his Drive Auto skill in place of Dodge. The truck 
is bigger than Harvey’s car, so the cultist takes no pen-
alty dice on the maneuver. Drive Auto rolls are made 
for Harvey and for the cultist. The cultist rolls a Hard 
success, Harvey rolls a Regular success; the cultist wins. 
Harvey’s car is pushed off the road and the Keeper 
inflicts  an  automatic  “minor  incident”  result  (see 
Table VI: Vehicular  Collisions,  page  147),  causing 
the loss of another point of build as the car rides over 
the verge and into the ditch. This also costs Harvey 2 
(1D3) movement actions and 2 (1D3) hit points.

Part 5: Optional Rules
“They’re coming to get you, Barbra.”
—George A. Romero, Night of the Living Dead

Parts  1  to  4  have  covered  all  of  the  essential  chase  rules. 
This  final  part  includes  optional  rules  that  can  be  used  to 
embellish and further develop chases. 

Choosing a Route
It  is  the  nature  of  a  chase  that  the  character  being  chased 
(the quarry) wants nothing other than to escape and must 
make split-second decisions whether to turn left or right. If 
there is a choice of routes available, the lead character is free 
to choose and may seek a more difficult path or an easier 
one, especially if he or she feels it would be to their advan-
tage to do so. For example, a strong swimmer might opt to 
leap into the river to lose their pursuer. If the investigator 
is the one being pursued then the Keeper should regularly 
present a choice of routes.

Random Hazards and Barriers
It would be very easy for the Keeper to stack the odds against 
the players by describing new terrain that constantly works 
against the investigators. You may find it more fun all round 
to create hazards and barriers randomly.

Roll 1D100:
01-59 = Clear
60+ = 1 Regular hazard/barrier
85+ = 1 Hard hazard/barrier
96+ = 1 Extreme hazard /barrier

If  the  environment  is  especially  hazardous,  such  as 
driving through rush hour traffic in a bustling city or along 
country lanes at midnight, add a penalty die to the roll for 
random hazards and barriers.

Conflict often arises in the middle of a chase.

If  the  environment  is  unlikely  to  have  any  dangers  or 
delays, such as driving down a quiet freeway, add a bonus 
die to the roll for random hazards and barriers