 the lock make your Lock-
smith roll.

PAULA: I rolled a 23—that’s under my 
Locksmith skill of 34—I succeed! (Paula 
ticks the skill).

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Fine.  Now,  inside 
the desk you find two things of interest: 
a sealed envelope marked “Last Will and 
Testament” and a small ledger which is 
titled “Innsmouth Shipping Co.” Do you 
want to look at them now? (Paula wants 
to  very  much  but,  to  maintain  tension 
and pace, the Keeper now turns his atten-
tion to Cathy).

Cathy,  as  Jake  climbs  to  the  top  of  the 
stairs, he can feel beads of water under-
neath  the  wooden  banister,  as  though 
water accumulated here after something 
wet touched the railing.

CATHY: Uh-oh. Jake proceeds cautiously.

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  There  are  two 
bedrooms and a bathroom on this floor. 
The  door  to  the  right-hand  bedroom 
is  open.  There’s  a  musty,  almost  sweet 
smell here.

Never Played a  
Roleplaying Game Before?

If you’ve never played a roleplaying game before, you may be wondering 
what this is all about. To dispel some misconceptions and set you on the 
right track, it may be useful to describe an average session of play (a full, 
blow-by-blow description of a game can be found nearby).

John, his partner, and two friends meet up at John’s house on Friday 
evening at around seven o’clock. After catching up on the week’s news 
and organizing some drinks and snacks, they sit down in John’s lounge 
and  John  hands  out  some  paper  and  pencils,  then  talks  them  through 
creating their investigators. People compare ideas for characters as they 
roll dice and fill out their investigator sheets. It’s now about eight o’clock. 
John kicks off the game by describing the opening scene, telling how 
the  investigators  find  themselves  talking  with  a  man  who  wants  them 
to check out an old property that he owns; rumor has it that it might be 
haunted! One of the players immediately responds to this, putting on the 
voice of her investigator to say that such things are, “Complete hogwash”. 
As the story unfolds everyone becomes involved, describing what their 
characters are doing or saying. Dramatic conflicts arise and dice are rolled 
to  determine  the  outcome.  Sometimes  the  players  get  their  way;  other 
times events appear to conspire against them. It is all played out simply by 
talking and rolling some dice to determine the outcome of certain situa-
tions; people aren’t getting out of their chairs to act it out, neither are they 
donning costumes or using props.

John  and  his  players  cease  play  at  around  ten-thirty  then  chat  for  a 
while before calling it a night at around eleven o’clock. Everyone is looking 
forward to meeting up again next week to find out how the story develops.
Of course that’s just an example. The number of players and the dura-

tion of a session of play will vary from group to group. 

14 

Call of CthulhuCATHY: I peep in through the open door.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: As  you  enter  the  bedroom,  the  smell 
grows stronger and you see blood and gore everywhere. The 
fully clothed corpse of Boss Morgan is draped over the bed. 
The top of his head has been torn off and the insides crudely 
scooped out. You can see all this because a faint green phos-
phorescence has been traipsed over most of the room. Please 
make a Sanity roll for Jake.

CATHY: Oops, I failed.

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Okay,  Jake  loses  1D