  feel  a  terrible  foreboding. 
Something is out there. Watching. Waiting…

You  wake  feeling  exhausted.  It’s  as  if  you  didn’t 
sleep at all. You suffer one penalty die on any CON 
rolls throughout the next day until you sleep again.

A Path Through the 
Forest
The forest extends all around you. The path cuts and 
snakes its way between the trees, carpeted by freshly 
fallen  yellowed  leaves  that  have  begun  to  dry  and 
wither  as  if  a  sickness  infests  them.  You’re  walking 
slowly down the path in silence. Nothing moves but 
you. There is no wind. There is no sound. Everything 
is dead. You feel something calling you from further 
down the path, just out of sight. There’s a clearing up 
ahead; yellow light reflects off something… Could it 
be water? There’s a snap of a twig behind you and as 
you turn to look, a sharp pain sinks into your chest as 
something plunges into you.

You wake with a gasp and a splutter. 

A Cabin in Darkness
Yellow  leaves  fall  slowly  from  the  thick  roof  of 
branches above. Blades of sunlight stab through the 
darkness. Ahead of you stands a dilapidated log cabin. 
The  door  swings  slowly  open  and  figures  emerge. 
They advance slowly with purpose. You want to turn 
and run, but you can’t take your eyes from them. Your 
muscles strain as your brain cries out for your limbs to 
work—you are powerless!

The figures wear strange clothes… You hear the first 
one, a man’s voice, as he comes closer. “Come with us. 
Join  us  in  His  service.  Embrace  your  new  destiny  and 
bask in his eternal glory.” Its face is lifeless, pale and un-
blinking. A dark green smear of corruption spreads down 
from an empty eye socket. It grins and its skin cracks. 

You wake in terror. 
[Make a Sanity roll for 1/1D6 SAN loss]

The Thing in the Lake

You stand on the shore of a stagnant lake. Black, stink-
ing water lies before you, while the pale moon above 
reflects  off  of  its  oily  surface.  An  unhealthy  yellow 
glow shines through the wooded tree line surround-
ing the lake. You can feel their presence behind you, 
blocking your retreat. You’ve stood there for hours and 
now you know the time is finally at hand. Strange light 
pulses  from  beneath  the  water.  Tendrils  rise  slowly 
from  the  surface,  writhing  and  twisting  in  the  cold 
night air. At their ends, lids open and blink, revealing 
inhuman  eyes  that  look  into  your  soul.  An  array  of 
metallic spikes begins to thrust upwards as something 
huge rises to greet the night. Like polished metal, it 
glistens in the moonlight. The spines writhe and flex. 
You  feel  a  sickening  stab  as  something  plunges  into 
your chest…

 You wake screaming.
[Make a Sanity roll for 1D3/1D10 SAN loss]

363 

chapter 15: scenariosCrimson  
Letters

Introduction

his is an open-ended scenario set in the envi-
rons of Arkham. The adventure begins focused 
on events transpiring at the ill-starred Miska-
tonic University and involves the pursuit of a 
set of valuable and dangerous missing papers 
following an unexplained death. The scenario is at its heart 
a murder mystery, but one where the true culprit is not of 
this earth and the facts of the case are shrouded by strange 
events,  greed  and  obsession.  The  scenario  takes  place  in 
October, some time in the 1920s, during the Prohibition era. 
While  this  could  be  used  as 