-written docu-
ments dating back to the early seventeen-hundreds 
and comprise a record of personal correspondence 
between the jurist Caleb Hobbhouse and a number 
of notable legal and spiritual authorities in colonial 
New England. 

The letters focus upon the 1690s Arkham Witch 
Trials  (in  which  Hobbhouse  had  taken  part),  the 
witch-panic’s causes and nature, and Hobbhouse’s 
fears of the escape of the true instigators of evil from 
the court’s hands. Among the letters are a number 
of  trial  extracts,  sworn  testimonies,  and  about  a 
dozen closely illustrated pages showing geometric 
or alchemical formulae, with diagrams purported to 
be from the possession of the convicted witch and 
child-killer,  Keziah  Mason,  thought  never  to  have 
been replicated elsewhere. 

Arkham Witch Trial Papers
English, Caleb Hobbhouse, Circa 1707
Sanity loss: 1D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+2 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 9
Study: 6 weeks
Suggested  Spells:  Call  Out  the  Shambling  One 
(Summon spell—Keeper’s choice), Circle of Protec-
tion (Warding).

and  then  back  into  the  unknowable  voids  from  whence  it 
was  first  drawn.  Its  attacks  on  the  barriers  of  reality  take 
the form of a series of manifestations of increasing severity, 
manifestations  in  which  the  Horror  itself  will  appear  first 
as a spectral form that gains power and solidity with each 
subsequent appearance—the disruptive aftershocks of these 
breaches will begin to play havoc on the world around it. 

The exact nature and frequency of these manifestations 
is  left  up  to  the  Keeper,  and  they  should  quickly  build  in 
severity. Manifestations should occur in some proximity to 
either the Witch Trial Papers themselves or to any who have 
touched them; a list of individuals which includes: the Cobb 
family,  Leiter’s  corpse,  Emilia  Court,  Cecil  Hunter,  Lucy 
Stone and, of course, whoever the Keeper has selected as the 
culprit of the theft (see Signs of Passage).

Within a short time, the Horror in Ink will break free and 
those  nearby  will  die  in  an  indescribably  horrific  manner, 
the Horror wreaking havoc akin to a sudden tornado before 
it departs. If this occurs within the bounds of Arkham or the 
university, the death toll will be considerable. 

A Dinner Party with Mister Wick

A Telegram from the Asylum

A suitable additional clue, should the investigators become 
stuck  (or  just  to  add  tension),  is  for  a  telegram  from  the 
sanatorium to arrive at the university, addressed to Profes-
sor  Charles  Leiter.  The  telegram,  inquiring  about  matters 
relating  to  the  care  of  one  Cecil  Hunter,  will  of  course  be 
immediately snapped up by Dean Fallon and handed to the 
investigators to deal with.

An Invitation to Dine with Mister 
Abner Wick
Once the investigators have gotten their teeth into the affair 
and pursued a few leads, it will be appropriate for them to 
receive a formal invitation to dinner at Crawford’s Restau-
rant,    the  best  and  most  expensive  restaurant  in  Arkham, 
with Mister Abner Wick, "Antiquarian" as his business card 
will relate. He plans to ascertain their interest in the matter 
of the Witch Trial Papers, inquire into the death of his busi-
ness acquaintance and pick their brains (in a non-literal way 
for the moment) about what is happening. 

Manifestations of Horror
In  the  attempt  to  copy  the  illustrated  formula  from  the 
Witch Trial Papers, the forger Cecil Hunter partly