 some 
careful consideration is required; placing a cheap, powerful 
spell into the hands of the players can have a dramatic effect 
upon  play.  Description,  on  the  other  hand,  is  simply  dra-
matic color and can be changed with relative ease.

Opposed POW Rolls
Many spells call for a POW roll to be made to test whether 
the spell affects its target. Both sides make a POW roll and 
compare their levels of success, with the higher one being 
the victor. In the case of a tie, the higher POW wins; if the 
sides are still drawn, the Keeper might decide that both are 
affected adversely in some manner that reflects the nature of 
the spell. If the difference between the caster’s POW and the 
target’s POW is 100 or more, the one with the greater POW 
automatically wins.

Spell Range
In the game, spell range is usually one of three options: touch, 
100 yards, or sight with the unaided eye. These general choic-
es  are  easy  to  visualize  and  understand.  Greater  ranges  can 
become engineering problems, not examples of horror. 

Casting Time and Spells in 
Combat
Some spells are useful in combat situations. Each spell has a 
casting time listed in its description: instantaneous, 1 round, 
and so on. 

If  the  casting  time  is  instantaneous,  it  activates  on  the 

user’s DEX+50 (just like a readied gun).

If the casting takes one round, it activates on the user’s 

DEX in the present round.

If the casting takes two rounds, it activates on the user’s 

DEX in the following round, and so on.

Altering a Spell’s Costs and Effects
The spell cost is usually gauged in magic points and Sanity 
points; however, some cases (where an effect is long-lasting 
and/or  highly  significant)  may  also  include  a  permanent 
expenditure  of  POW.  When  altering  the  cost,  you  should 
consider  any  changes  you  intend  to  make  to  the  effect.  A 
more  powerful  effect  is  likely  to  increase  the  cost,  while  a 
lesser effect may lower it. 

The source from which a spell is learned can affect both 
the cost and the effect; the purer the source, the better the 
spell. There is no set ratio of spell cost to effect in this game. 
A poorer source, such as a badly translated and incomplete 
tome, may provide a lesser version of a spell with a reduced 
effect and increased cost. A spell imparted directly from a 
Great Old One to the mind of a character might have greatly 
increased effects and/or greatly reduced costs.

Altering a Spell
Try  to  insert  some  personal  touches  to  the  spell,  tying  it 
more  strongly  to  your  scenario,  investigators,  and  story,  if 
possible.

Location:  consider  the  locations  in  your  story;  could 
one of them be linked to the spell? If the investigators are 
dealing with ghouls, for example, a spell that must be cast 
underground suddenly takes on an added dimension.

Spell  components:  the  specific  items  required  to  cast 
the spell. Could it be that the investigators need the curved 
silver dagger they saw in the previous session at the British 
Museum?

Spell ritual: a greater spell effect usually means a more 
complex  and  involved  ritual.  Consider  where,  when,  and 
how  the  spell  is  cast.  Do  the  investigators  have  to  daub 
themselves in blood at the full moon and inscribe a ritual 
circle?

Spell description: this can range from subtle to dramatic. 
Try to imbue the description with strange smells, disorient-
ing visions, curious sounds, and disturbing sensations—re-
member that most of these spells erode the caster’s sanity, 
and the way in which you describe the casting should