  by  the  investigator.  The  Keeper 
should  decide  what  gets  translated,  how  quickly,  and  how 
accurately. If the language is unknown or long forgotten, the 
investigators must come up with a plan that convinces the 
Keeper, or else the book baffles them.

Initial Reading
The  next  step,  beyond  looking  at  the  cover,  reading  the 
title  (if  it  has  one  that  can  be  read),  and  determining  the 
language in which the book is written, is to make an initial 
reading. To continue the analogy used above, this is where 

173 

chapter 9: magicthe investigator is exposed to the fire within. An initial read-
ing can be swift and may represent the reader only having 
skimmed the book sufficient to gain some insight regarding 
its contents, or it may be a cover-to-cover reading. An initial 
reading  can  take  as  much  time  as  the  Keeper  wishes;  this 
may be minutes, hours, days, or weeks, depending on how 
the Keeper wants to shape the story. 

Whether a reading roll is called for is up to the Keeper, 
who may choose to grant automatic success to anyone with 
a modicum of skill in the appropriate language. 

To make a reading roll, the player makes an appropriate 
Language skill roll on 1D100. The Keeper decides on a dif-
ficulty level for reading the book based upon its age, form, 
and condition Table XI: Mythos Tomes, pages (237-239).

A  book  printed  within  the  last  century  and  in  good 

condition would be of Regular difficulty.

A handwritten work is likely to be of a Hard difficulty 

level, especially if it is old.

The most challenging of ancient, moldering tomes, con-
taining a mix of print and handwritten annotation, would 
be Extreme difficulty level.

If the investigator fails the reading roll, they perhaps gets 
some inkling as to the content of the book, but have failed 

Harvey gets his hands on the Book of Eibon…

Book of Eibon: Sanity point loss 2D4. Cthulhu 
Mythos  +3%/+8%,  Full  study  32  weeks.  Mythos 
rating 33%.

The Keeper judges Harvey’s reading of the book to 
be secondary to the plot and is in no rush for Harvey to 
complete an initial reading, making it clear to the play-
er that an initial reading is going to take a few days. 

Harvey  begins  reading  the  book  in  his  home 
and  then  continues  while  on  a  long  train  journey. 
The  Keeper  decides  that  Harvey  has  read  for  long 
enough to get something from the book and that the 
train journey would be a dramatic point to call for a 
reading roll. As the book is a flawed and incomplete 
translation, the reading roll is set to Hard difficulty 
level. Harvey’s player makes the roll and is rewarded 
with +3% Cthulhu Mythos knowledge (the Cthulhu 
Mythos  Initial—CMI  number  for  the  tome)  and 
reduces  Harvey’s  maximum  Sanity  points  by  a 
corresponding  amount.  The  player  is  also  informed 
of a number of spells contained within the book. She 
then  rolls  2D4  and  Harvey  loses  6  Sanity  points. 
This  is  more  that  the  five  points  required  to  trigger 
temporary  insanity,  should  Harvey’s  player  pass  an 
Intelligence roll, which she does. The Keeper decides 
that Harvey loses his mind and pulls the emergency 
stop cable, bails out of the train, and runs off into the 
night.  The  Keeper  withholds  that  information  and 
simply tells the player that Harvey awakens at dawn 
in a cornfield, his clothes muddy