  typically  Lovecraftian: 
Antiquarian, Author, Dilettante, Doctor of Medicine, Jour-
nalist,  Police  Detective,  and  Professor.  Other  occupations 
are not those you would normally find in a Lovecraft story, 
however they may interest particular players and be fun to 
play in a Call of Cthulhu game.

An  occupation  ties  together  a  cluster  of  skills.  For 
instance,  in  the  sample  occupations,  Antiquarian  encom-
passes:  Appraise,  Art/Craft,  History,  Library  Use,  Other 
Language,  one  interpersonal  skill  (Charm,  Fast  Talk,  In-
timidate, or Persuade), Spot Hidden, and one other skill of 
the player’s choice (to reflect something special or relevant 
about the investigator’s past). Some occupations include no 
free choices; others may have two or more.

Once you have chosen the occupation for your investi-
gator, write it down on the investigator sheet and then make 
a note of the occupation's professional skills.

Sample occupations can be found on page 40.

33 

chapter 3: CREATING INVESTIGATORSQuick Reference: Investigator Generation

34 

Call of Cthulhu2 Derived AttributesSanity Points equals the POW characteristic.Magic Points equal one fifth of POW.Roll 3D6 multipled by 5 for Luck.Hit Points equal SIZ + CON divided by 10 (round down).Circle the results in the boxes in this section.4 Decide Occupation & Allot Points to SkillsChoose an occupation (pages 68-69) and note the occupation skills and Credit Rating. Calculate occupa-tion skill points using the characteristics specified by the occupation. Allot these points across the occupa-tion skills, not forgetting to put points into Credit Rating. Add points to the base chances written next to each skill on the sheet. Information on each skill can be found starting on page 96.1 Determine CharacteristicsRoll 3D6 multiplied by 5 for the characteristics STR, CON, DEX, APP, and POW. Roll 2D6+6 multiplied by 5 for SIZ,   INT, and EDU. Before writing these results onto the sheet, decide the age of the investigator:AGEMODIFIERS15-19Deduct 5 points from STR or SIZ, and also from EDU. Roll twice for Luck and use the higher value.20s or 30sMake an improvement check for EDU.40sDeduct 5 points from STR, CON, or DEX (split across one, two, or all three), and reduce APP by 5 points. Make 2 improvement checks for EDU.50sDeduct 10 points from STR, CON, or DEX (split across one, two, or all three), and reduce APP by 10 points. Make 3 improvement checks for EDU.60sDeduct 20 points from STR, CON, or DEX (split across one, two, or all three), and reduce APP by 15 points. Make 4 improvement checks for EDU.70sDeduct 40 points from STR, CON, or DEX (split across one, two, or all three), and reduce APP by 20 points. Make 4 improvement checks for EDU.80sDeduct 80 points from STR, CON, or DEX (split across one, two, or all three), and reduce APP by 25 points. Make 4 improvement checks for EDU.EDU improvement check: roll 1D100. If result is greater than your present EDU, add 1D10 percentage points to EDU (EDU cannot go above 99).Now write in the full, half, and fifth values for each characteristic in the boxes on the sheet.7 Additional Background &   PortraitGive your investigator a name and write in his or her age, sex, occupa-tion, current residence, and where they grew-up. The blank box pro-vides a space for your investigator’s portrait (if you are using a PDF investigator sheet then you can drop a digital image in here).3 Determine Move RateBoth DEX and STR