, roll or suffer some combination 
thereof. All occupants of the vehicle are likely to die. Whether or 
not investigators have a chance of survival is up to the Keeper: 
Luck rolls may be allowed. Those who are fortunate get thrown 
free, though it is recommended they take at least 2D10 damage. 
If a vehicle’s build is otherwise reduced to zero by cumu-
lative  damage  (i.e.  in  increments  of  less  than  the  vehicle’s 
starting build value), it becomes undrivable, grinding to a halt. 
Depending on the situation (and perhaps a Luck roll) this may 
lead to an accident resulting in 1D10 damage for the driver and 
each passenger. 

Armor for people: The armor rating is for the passengers and 
driver,  reflecting  the  number  of  points  of  armor  the  vehicle 
provides against external attacks.

Passengers and crew: The number of people that can be ac-
commodated.

145 

chapter 7: chasesHarvey  lights  the  fuse  on  a  stick  of  dynamite  then 
flees from the cave before it explodes. The fuse is long 
enough for a minimum of 7 rounds of movement. At 
the end of the seventh chase round, and each round 
thereafter, a Luck roll is called for—if it is failed, the 
dynamite explodes. The Keeper gives Harvey 1 move-
ment action per round. During each chase round, the 
player  may  make  a  skill  roll  to  negotiate  a  hazard 
(scramble over wet rocks in an underground stream, 
climb a rope, and squeeze through the exit hole). 

When the dynamite explodes, the Keeper uses the 
range to attribute damage. The base range of dyna-
mite  is  3  yards  (see  Weapons  Lists,  page  401-405); 
however, the Keeper decides that this should be dou-
bled because of the enclosed environment. The Keeper 
places a location every 6 yards, noting 1, 2, and 3 on 
the map to mark the three range increments; at range 
1 the damage will be 4D10, at range 2 it will be 2D10 
and at range 3 it will be 1D10. Once out of the exit 
Harvey will be safe. So long as Harvey does not fail 
his skill rolls when negotiating the hazards, he should 
be able to make it out safely.

Hazards:

dynamite

steam

rope

exit

Stealing a car might attract unwanted attention.

Harvey

1

2

3

On the first round Harvey fails his DEX roll and 
slips in the stream, taking 2 (1D3) points of damage 
and losing 3 (1D3) movement actions as he fumbles 
to regain his footing. He has 3 movement actions left 
before the Keeper starts asking for Luck rolls to deter-
mine if the dynamite explodes. Things are not looking 
so good for him now…

Hazards:

dynamite

steam

rope

exit

1
Harvey

2

3

Chases in the Air and Sea
Chases  can  take  place  in  any  environment,  and  the  Keeper 
should  create  new  hazards  and  barriers  appropriately.  For 
example, at sea: rocks, shallows, buoys, waves, strong winds, 
etc. Or, for example, in the air: clouds, tall buildings, birds, 
cables, anti-aircraft fire, etc.

MOV Rates
The MOV rate is used as a measure of relative speeds. One 
point of MOV is significant in a chase; it allows for one addi-
tional movement action, and for this reason, the scale of MOV 
rating to speed is not linear. Each point of MOV equates with 
an approximate increase in speed of around 50%. 

The  MOV  rating  of  a  creature  is  not  necessarily  their 
maximum  speed  over  a  short  distance,  but  is 