

Physics (01%)—see Science
Pilot (01%) G
Psychoanalysis (01%)

Psychology (10%)
Read Lips (01%) T
Ride (05%)

Rifle (25%)—see Firearms 
(Rifle/Shotgun)
Science (01%) G
Shotgun (25%)—see Firearms 
(Rifle/Shotgun)

Sleight of Hand (10%)

Spear (20%)—see Firearms (or 
Throw)

Spot Hidden (25%)

Stealth (20%)

Submachine Gun (15%)—see 
Firearms
Survival (10%) G
Sword (20%)—see Fighting

Swim (20%)

Throw (20%)

Track (10%) 

Whip (05%)—see Fighting

Zoology (01%)—see Science

Call of CthulhuAccounting (05%)
Grants  understanding  of  accountancy  procedures  and 
reveals  the  financial  functioning  of  a  business  or  person. 
Inspecting the books, one might detect cheated employees, 
siphoned-off  funds,  payment  of  bribes  or  blackmail,  and 
whether  the  financial  condition  is  better  or  worse  than 
claimed. Looking through old accounts, one could see how 
money was gained or lost in the past (grain, slave-trading, 
whiskey-running, etc.) and to whom and for what payment 
was made. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
If someone were trying to conceal something, the difficulty 
level  would  be  based  upon  the  Accountancy  skill  of  the 
person doing the concealing.

i  Regular  difficulty:  comprehensive  and  well-docu-

Anthropology (01%) 
Enables the user to identify and understand an individual’s 
way  of  life  through  observation.  If  the  skill-user  observes 
another  culture  from  within  for  a  time,  or  works  from 
accurate records concerning an extinct culture, then simple 
predictions can be made about that culture’s ways and mor-
als, even though the evidence may be incomplete. Studying 
the culture for a month or more, the anthropologist begins 
to understand how the culture functions and, in combina-
tion with Psychology, may predict the actions and beliefs of 
those being studied. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
The difficulty for this skill is set according to the exposure of 
the skill-user to their subject.

i  Regular difficulty: spending a month or more with 

mented set of account books.

the people.

i  Hard difficulty: disorganized and partial accounts.

i  Hard  difficulty  level:  spending  only  a  week  or  less 

Pushing examples: taking more time to review documents; 
visiting  banks  or  businesses  to  validate  findings;  dou-
ble-checking the math and data.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: discussions 
between  investigators  and  third  parties  alert  some  enemy 
faction  to  the  investigators’  intentions;  a  vital  part  of  the 
accounts is destroyed or lost (perhaps in their tired state the 
investigator spills coffee over them).

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 

might be found having partially eaten the accounts.

Animal Handling (05%)[Uncommon]
The ability to command and train domesticated animals to 
perform simple tasks. The skill is most commonly applied to 
dogs but may include birds, cats, monkeys, and so on (at the 
Keeper’s discretion). For riding animals, such as horses  or 
camels, the Ride skill is used for breaking in and controlling 
such mounts.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

with the people. 

Pushing examples: taking more time to study the target/s; 
going “native”  for  a  period;  taking  an  active  role  in  a  cer-
emony, rite, etc.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  being  at-
