Keeper decides to rewind the action a little to where 
the investigator is running at the guard, stating, “The 
guard sees you coming and makes a grab for his fallen 
weapon as he rolls away from you. Sounds like you’re 
trying to get it before him, right?”

Bang—it’s an exciting action scene. All that’s hap-
pened is that the player has achieved his goal of getting 
through the door and is now grappling the guard. The 
only  thing  that  the  player’s  description  really  added 
was that the guard has dropped his weapon and the 
Keeper  feels  this  is  acceptable  in  the  circumstances. 
The  guard  would  normally  have  to  draw  a  weapon, 
so either way the weapon is not in the guard’s hand at 
that moment. The whole thing about the splinters in 
the guard’s face is just color and has no effect on the 
dice or hit points.

Delusions can cause investigators to act irrationally.

most  importance,  as  it  is  this  description  that  builds  the 
story and makes the game more interesting and fun.

There  is  only  a  mechanical  effect  on  the  game  when 
the player goes beyond color and adds something that will 
affect future dice rolls. This is where you need to use your 
judgment on whether to accept, veto, or adapt the player’s 
description. If what the player asks for or describes  seems 
reasonable, you can allow it, but don’t make life too easy for 
the player—remember that this is a horror game. You can 
veto it, but where possible try to adapt it or offer an alterna-
tive rather than blocking the player’s suggestion. If you feel 
unsure whether to allow it or not, you can ask for a Luck roll. 

Pushing the Roll—Pushing the Horror
Sometimes,  a  player  will  simply  ask,  “Can  I  push  that?” 
Remember the advice—ask questions of the players. Players 
must always describe the extra effort or action their inves-
tigators  make  to  justify  a  pushed  roll—if  it  sounds  insuf-
ficient  then  suggest  what  more  might  be  done.  A  pushed 
roll should usually be possible, but events in the story must 
account for it. 

When  a  player  loses  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she  is  giving 
you, the Keeper, license to make the investigators’ lives more 
difficult. You should think of a consequence that takes the 
investigators one step nearer to their doom. It may be some 
unexpected occurrence, perhaps even one that is unrelated 
to the subject of the skill roll.

The  consequence  should  be  more  than  failure.  Every 
time a player loses a pushed roll, you should try to steer the 
game  towards  the  theme  of  horror.  This  may  not  always 
be possible, but have that as your goal: a pushed roll is your 
chance to push the horror.

196 

Call of CthulhuMatthew asks a hotel receptionist if a certain person 
has stayed at the hotel recently. After failing initially, 
he refuses to take no for an answer and offers a bribe. 
The  Keeper  grants  a  pushed  roll.  Thinking  fast,  the 
Keeper foreshadows the consequence: “Your persistence 
may cause offense, perhaps more.” It’s vague, but it’s 
what the investigator might expect. Matthew fails the 
pushed roll and the Keeper considers how to make life 
more difficult for the investigator and push the horror 
theme. Up to this point the Keeper had not considered 
the receptionist but, as a result of this pushed roll, the 
Keeper decides that the receptionist is allied with the 
investigator’s  enemies  and  will  inform  them  of  the 
investigator’s  enquiry.  To  increase  the  tension,  the 
Keeper  hints  at  this  within  the  consequence.  “