The Briefing

bloodstains where the police officers were gunned down. The 
area  is  otherwise  still  and  ominously  quiet.  From  here,  the 
investigators are directed to head northeast. 

Evidence of two men running into the forest is quickly 
discovered by anyone searching the area. These are the tracks 
left by Sidney Harris and Eugene Clayton.  

As the characters set off from the edge of the woods, 
you may begin to call for Tracking rolls to find the di-
rection the kidnappers took. If the players constantly 
fail the tracking rolls the investigators progress will be 
slow and hazardous. Feel free to incorporate some of 
the  negative  outcomes  listed  in  the  section  Pushing 
Skill Rolls  in  the Forest (see  page  353).  Ultimately 
the investigators must find the tracks, otherwise there 
will  be  no  scenario.  Successful  tracking  rolls  should 
provide  a  slight  advantage  to  the  players,  allowing 
them to anticipate encounters rather than being sur-
prised or disadvantaged by them.

Day 1: Meeting the Hunting Party
For the first few hours of trekking through the forest all the 
investigators will see is the occasional glimpse of deer run-
ning between the thickets. 

At this point, ask each player to describe how their inves-
tigator is dressed, if they have not done so already. If none 
of them have specifically made the choice to wear brightly 
colored clothing that makes them stand out from their sur-

351 

chapter 15: scenariosWhoever  is  awake  around  midnight  may 
attempt  a  Listen  roll.  Success  means  that  the  in-
vestigator can make out the faint sound of a truck 
engine  in  the  far  distance  somewhere  ahead,  but 
they can see no lights. On another occasion they 
will hear a flurry of rifle fire, but too far away to 
pinpoint. The gunfire is Eugene Clayton shooting 
at one of the passing undead servants (see Day 2: 
The First Kidnapper, see following page). 

If  the  investigators  decide  to  move  onwards 
after hearing the sound of rifle fire in the middle 
of the night, call for Hard CON rolls. Those that 
fail the CON roll simply can’t go on as exhaustion 
takes over. The investigators are unlikely to locate 
Eugene that night. If they do wander far, the Keeper 
may choose to have another encounter that night, 
either  Day  2:  The  artist’s  body  (see  following 
page) or Day 2: The Truck (see following page).

Day 2: Moving Through the 
Forest
The  next  day,  the  posse  are  entering  the  heart 
of  the  forest.  Strangely,  there  are  fewer  signs  or 
sounds of animals this far in. 

Day 2: The Artist’s Body
As the posse continue on through the forest, call 
for  Tracking  and  Spot  Hidden  rolls.  Those  suc-
ceeding with Spot Hidden discover blood-spatters 
across  their  path  upon  the  ground.  Those  who 
pass  Tracking  rolls  notice  that  the  foliage  has 
been  disturbed,  with  broken  twigs  and  branches 
that  imply  someone  was  running  while  injured 
through here recently. 

If they choose to follow the trail, it detours away from their 
intended path, but not enough that they can’t double back later. 
A  half-mile  down  the  trail  a  discarded  hunting  knife  is 
found. It is old, rusty, and covered in sticky, semi-dried blood. 
A little way farther from this lies the body of one of the artists 
who escaped the raid on their camp (see Day 3: The Artists’ 
Camp, page 355). Seeing the torn-up corpse costs 0/1D3 SAN 
for those not accustomed to the sight of death. 

The male body doesn’t have