 the player 
is overstepping the mark (going far beyond the stated goal) 
you may veto the player’s comments, perhaps calling for a 
subsequent dice roll.

If the player loses a dice roll, you have free rein to de-
scribe  any  outcome  you  wish.  Usually  this  will  mean  that 
the player’s goal is not realized; however, you are not con-
strained to presenting the opposite of the player’s goal—the 
player’s goal could be fully or partially achieved along with 
a consequence. The Keeper’s job is to create an interesting 
outcome, preferably one that develops the theme of horror 
in the story.

One way to think of this is to compare it to a football 
game  in  which  the  two  teams  battle  for  possession  of  the 
ball. In Call of Cthulhu the player and Keeper battle for “pos-
session” of the story. The side that wins the dice roll gets to 
run with the metaphorical ball for a while.

Dice Rule 5: Avoid consecutive rolls against the same skill.

Asking  a  player  to  make  a  skill  roll  more  than  once  for 
the  same  task  greatly  reduces  the  likelihood  of  the  player 
winning the roll. An investigator with a Stealth skill of 50% 
obviously  has  a  50%  chance  of  winning  (at  Regular  diffi-
culty level). If the player is asked to make this roll twice in 
succession, the chance of passing both rolls drops to 25%. 

Therefore, if there are three guard posts and each must be 
passed  to  enter  the  cult  base,  rather  than  asking  for  three 
consecutive Stealth rolls, you could call for one roll to cover 
all three, allowing the one winning roll to stand so that no 
further rolls will be required for a time. If you feel that there 
being three guard posts makes the task significantly harder 
then you can raise the difficulty level. 

Dice Rule 6: Roll dice in full view.

Both players and Keeper should roll the dice in full view and 
use the result as rolled. If you find that dice rolls bring un-
wanted consequences, you should read through Dice Rules 
1 to 4 again. The only exception to this is when the Keeper is 
making a “concealed roll,” such as for Psychology rolls (see 
Contacts, page 97).

Setting Difficulty Levels
The difficulty level of a given task should be the same for 
everyone and should not be altered according to the skill of 
the person attempting it. If the difficulty level for a climb is 
declared as being Hard it remains Hard regardless of wheth-
er one is a novice or an expert climber.  The skill percentage 
is  what  makes  the  difference;  the  person  with  the  greater 
Climb skill has a greater chance of winning the roll.

If you feel that a task is so easy that it would be routine, you 
can either not call for a roll (the task is simply accomplished) 
or you may ask for a roll at Regular difficulty (or give a Bonus 
die), but make the consequence of failure be very mild. 

A  routine  task  that  relates  directly  to  an  investigator’s 
occupation  should  be  achieved  automatically;  remember, 
only roll dice for important and dramatic reasons.

Harvey’s player is trying to open a puzzle-box. 

“Can I make an INT roll to try to open it”, the 

player asks. 

“What are you actually doing with the box?”, asks 

the Keeper, prompting the player to elaborate.

Harvey’s player thinks for a moment. “I’m going 
to spend a while studying the various symbols, per-
haps looking some of them up in my Uncle’s books, 
and  see  if  I  can  figure  out  how  to  turn  the  various 
sides until it opens.”

“Sounds good. OK, give me an INT roll”.
Notice  how  the  Keeper’s  question  coaxed  some 

extra description and