 to 
Leiter’s office and home, as well as contact with any 
relevant members of the Faculty. 

T  He  will  discuss  the  involvement  of  both  Harland 

Roach and Emilia Court. 

T  While he knows a little about Leiter’s gambling, he 
knows nothing about Leiter’s forgery business. 

Roleplaying hooks

T  Fallon is increasingly  anxious to secure  the  papers 
before  trouble  escalates  further  between  the  Cobb 
family  and  the  university  (this  may  happen  when 
one of the Cobb family dies).

367 

chapter 15: scenariosT  He  insists  on  being  systematic;  evidence  must  be 
catalogued, evaluated, and retained (including Leit-
er’s corpse) until the matter is closed.

T  Later, failing the return of the papers, Fallon will seek 
to shift the blame to another NPC (or even the inves-
tigators), desperate to preserve his own reputation.

Keeper’s  Notes:  Fallon  is  far  from  any  stereotype  of  a 
bumbling academic, despite what others may assume, nor is 
he naïve. He spent a short stint in the army in his youth and 
has for many years dealt with "unfortunate" matters for the 
Miskatonic  University  with  tact  and  discretion—ranging 
from  student  suicides  to  the  mundane  and  occasionally 
less  than  mundane  failings  of  faculty  members.  Although 
he has no great personal knowledge of the Mythos or those 
that  have  truck  with  it,  he  is  quietly  informed  by  his  own 
experiences that sometimes things far from the normal run 
of existence gather around Arkham and its university.

Fallon will want regular private updates on how matters 
are progressing from the investigators. The Dean can act as a 
conduit for information from the Keeper as needed.

If the Witch Trial Papers are handed to him early in the 
scenario by particularly adroit investigators, the Horror will 
be  drawn  to  him,  although  its  first  manifestation  will  be 
merely terrifying rather than fatal. He will appeal immedi-
ately to the investigators to help him if they can, although 
whether they can save him is another matter!

Beyond this scenario: Depending on the investigators’ 
personal  dealings  with  Fallon,  should  he  survive,  he  can 
make  for  a  useful  contact  in  the  future  and  a  potential 
source of both information and employment.

Doctor John Wheatcroft, Physician, 
Tutor and Sometime Coroner
Wheatcroft  is  an  elderly,  watery-eyed,  and  walrus-mus-
tached  man  somewhere  the  wrong  side  of  sixty,  with  too 
much skin  and not enough flesh, having lost considerable 
weight  since  having  a 
mild heart attack some 
ten years ago. Formerly 
an assistant coroner in 
Boston,  Wheatcroft 
retired  to  a  part-time 
teaching position at the 
Miskatonic  University 
where  he  had  attained 
his  medical  degree  in 
his youth. He is a dull, 
prosaic  and  unimag-
inative  man,  who  is 
nevertheless  a  diligent 
and 
knowledgeable 
medical examiner. 

Dr. John Wheatcroft

He is loyal to Fallon 
and  the  Faculty,  and 
given the state of Leit-
er’s  remains,  he  was 

more than ready to issue a death certificate for "massive and 
sudden heart failure," rather than expose the strangeness of 
the  death  and  any  scandal  that  might  ensue. Although,  as 
conventional a soul as he is, this mild cover-up is weighing 
heavily on his conscience.  

Facts and Clues

T  Wheatcroft both pronounced Leiter dead and took 
charge of the body (which is still