 even  if  there  is  no  clue  present.  The  goal  should  be 
phrased  as “to  look  for  a  clue”  or  if  looking  for  a  specific 
item, perhaps “to look for Jefferson’s journal,” for example. 
If the goal is achieved, the player will discover that the clue 
or item is definitely not present at the scene.

Psychology
If  a  player  passes  a  Psychology  roll,  the  truth  should  be 
revealed. If the roll is lost, you may be tempted to deceive 
the player, but if you automatically do this every time, the 
player (who knows because they lost the dice roll) will know 
that  the  opposite  is  true!  Therefore,  rather  than  feeling 
compelled to inform the player of the opposite of what is 
true, you are free to tell the player whatever you like—the 
difference being that the player won’t know if the informa-
tion is reliable.

Harvey is showing a photo of his missing friend to the 
barman, “Have you seen this guy?” The Keeper tells 
how the barman glances at it then goes back to wiping 
a glass and stating, “Never seen him before in my life.” 
Harvey’s player requests Psychology roll to tell if the 
barman is lying; she fails the roll. The Keeper smiles, 
“Well, he seems to be telling the truth.”

Harvey’s  player  now  feels  sure  that  the  barman 
is  lying  but  she  is  not  certain.  Should  she  press  the 
matter, perhaps offering a bribe or a threat? 

Handouts
Player  handouts  are  a  common  feature  of  Call  of  Cthulhu 
games.  These  are  usually  given  to  the  players  when  their 
investigators have found some important information, such 
as a letter or excerpt from a book. Published scenarios often 
reprint (or make available online) such handouts, allowing 
Keepers to print or cut them out for use in the game.

For example, a handwritten letter from an anonymous 
informer,  a  map  showing  the  location  of  the  tomb  of  an 
ancient  wizard,  or  a  newspaper  article  detailing  sightings 
of the Sasquatch could each be presented to the players as 
handouts. 

Handouts  serve  several  functions.  One  is  sensory:  a 
lovingly  crafted  handout  helps  to  boost  the  sense  of  im-
mersion  in  the  story.  Another  is  information.  A  handout 
is a convenient way to give out clues and information that 

can be retained by the players for later reference. A handout 
can also shift the focus from you and onto the person you 
hand it to. If the handout is for everyone then encourage the 
player to read it aloud.

Some  Keepers  prefer  to  create  their  handouts  from 
scratch, whether for a published or a home-brew scenario. 
These can be works of art in themselves. Simple techniques 
can  be  used  to  great  effect,  such  as  writing  letters  with  a 
fountain pen, or using an old, worn notebook, wherein the 
Keeper has prepared suitable pages. Coffee  can be used to 
stain the paper to give a timeworn effect. A piece of clothing 
from a charity shop (like a glove or torn shirt) can be em-
bellished with fake blood so that the Keeper can present it to 
the players when their investigators are searching the scene 
of some dark activity.

Photographs of the period in which the scenario is set 
can  be  useful  in  showing  locations  and  people.  Postcards 
from antique fairs might also be used. 

If the setting is more modern, the Keeper might prepare 
a sound file to be played when a recorded message is discov-
ered, or perhaps