 as 
well as looking at the dark knowledge contained within an-
cient tomes. It also discusses the occult versus the magical, 
and tells ways to increase the POW characteristic.

This chapter does not contain spells. Mythos spells can 

be found in Chapter 12: Grimoire. 

What is Magic?

Gilman had some terrible hints from the dreaded 
Necronomicon of Abdul Al-hazred…and the suppressed 
Unaussprechlichen Kulten of von Junzt to correlate with his 
abstract formulae on the properties of space and the linkage of 
dimensions known and unknown.

 —H.P. Lovecraft, The Dreams in the Witch House

After World War  I,  astronomers  confirmed  that  the  thirty 
or forty thousand light years of easily observed stars nearest 
to us comprised only a minor corner of the universe. There 
was not one Milky Way, as astronomers had once believed, 
but rather thousands and millions of galaxies, most so faint 
and so distant that the truth of the nebulae had long been 
argued, but never before solved. The notion of island uni-
verses—galaxies,  as  we  now  say—was  a  bombshell.  In  the 
1920s, humanity’s perception of the unbounded universe’s 
true size increased by orders of magnitude.

Writing as such discoveries took place, Lovecraft gradu-
ally evolved a background myth incorporating such discov-
eries and added some flavorings from Einstein and Planck. 
These  new  “universes,”  so  he  appears  to  have  speculated, 
were truly islands—their separation included their natural 
laws. Isolated by hundreds of thousands or millions of light 
years, the stuff of life could differ wildly. Very quickly, these 
islands also took on a Riemannian association of existing in 
or being connected to other dimensions.

The magic of the Cthulhu Mythos is the unifying logic 
of  this  universe  of  universes.  Magic  works  everywhere.  It 
models  and  defines  the  greater  reality;  it  is  the  ultimate 
expression of natural law, the will of the Outer Gods made 
palpable and the arbiter of time, space, and matter.

In  comparison,  earthly  science  and  religion  seem  of 
little avail. Apparently we understand far less than we flatter 
ourselves as knowing. Is imperfection in what we believe or 
in how we have come to believe it? Perhaps there is a poverty 
in  our  souls  or  our  mathematical  equations  that  forestalls 
ultimate  knowledge  and  revelation.  The  Mythos  mocks 
human pretensions.

172 

Call of CthulhuMythos Tomes
The open book lay flat between us, with the picture staring re-
pulsively upward. As the old man whispered the words "more 
the same" a tiny splattering impact was heard, and something 
showed on the yellowed paper of the upturned volume. I 
thought of the rain and of a leaky roof, but rain is not red.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Picture In The House

In Lovecraft’s stories, the protagonist usually learns Mythos 
magic  by  finding  and  following  written  instructions.  The 
volumes  of  arcane  lore  mentioned  by  the  Lovecraft  Circle 
of writers represent the intellectual invasion of the Cthul-
hu  Mythos.  In  particular,  these  ancient  manuscripts  and 
suppressed publications included recipes for the admission 
(or  return!)  of  the  Great  Old  Ones  and  the  Outer  Gods, 
as  described  in  vivid  detail  in  Lovecraft’s  classic  story  The 
Dunwich Horror. At least by implication, such writings also 
indicated how to force away or dispel those dreadful entities. 
It takes time to learn, even from textbooks that have been 
carefully written and specially laid out just for that purpose. 
Studying the crabbed, idiosyncratic, and infinitely more dif-
ficult Myth