, no Sanity 
roll needs to be made—there was no monster after all, 
perhaps  just  a  tramp  who  appeared  to  be  a  monster 
in the eyes of the insane investigator. However, if the 
player fails the reality check roll, the insane investigator 
loses one Sanity point and enters a bout of madness. 

Note  that  while  suffering  a  bout  of  madness  the 
investigator is immune to further Sanity point loss and 
need not make a Sanity roll for seeing the monster. If 
the monster (delusion or not) is still present at the end 
of  the  bout  of  madness,  the  player  will  then  have  to 
make the appropriate Sanity roll for seeing the monster.

Treatment and 
Recovery from Insanity

Temporary insanity ends quickly enough that schedules of 
treatment  are  not  realistic.  On  the  other  hand,  treatment 
of  permanent  insanity  mostly  has  no  meaning,  since  by 
definition  the  character  will  never  recover,  no  matter  how 
good the facility (the character should be retired from play). 
Only  indefinite  insanity  offers  real  scope  for  intervention 
and treatment.

Recovery from  
Temporary Insanity
Temporary  insanity  lasts  1D10  hours.  Alternatively,  the 
investigator will recover after a good night’s sleep in a safe 
place.  If  the  investigators  are  in  a  state  of  heightened  ten-
sion  (for  example,  standing  watch  at  night  due  to  fear  of 
imminent attack), the Keeper may deem that sanity cannot 
be recovered.

Recovery from 
Indefinite Insanity
After  each  month  of  treatment  of  an  indefinitely  insane 
character, safe from further trauma, the player makes a dice 
roll. Two sorts of care might help to get the character to this 
point: private care or institutionalization. In choosing, the 
Keeper and player should consider the character’s resources, 
friends and relatives, and past behavior.

Alternatively,  at  the  Keeper’s  discretion,  indefinite  in-
sanity lasts until the next Investigator Development Phase 
at the end of the present game chapter (in a campaign) or 
scenario.

Private Care
The best care available is at home or in some friendly place 
where nursing can be tender, considerate, and where there 
are no distractions (such as other patients). Analysis and/or 
psychiatric medications may be available.

To  determine  the  success  of  treatment  with  private/

home care, roll 1D100:

A  result  of  01–95  is  a  success:  add  1D3  Sanity  points  for 
psychiatric medications or psychoanalysis. This is followed 
by a Sanity roll for the investigator; if the roll is successful, 
the investigator is cured of their insanity; if the roll is unsuc-
cessful then a further Sanity roll may be attempted in one 
month’s time.

If the result is 96–100:  the  character  rebels  against  taking 
the  drugs  or  therapy.  1D6  Sanity  points  are  lost  and  no 
further progress can be made during the next game month.

164 

Call of CthulhuSanity Loss
The  following  is  a  guide  for  how  the  loss  of  San-
ity points might be characterized and can be used to 
complement and add color to the other rules described 
in this chapter (note that the effects may accumulate).
1—2  points:  discomfort  and  unease,  something 
gnawing at the corner of the mind—hardly noticeable, 
yet definitely there.
3—4 points: disgust, or the feeling that something is 
wrong  here.  This  may  manifest  in  vomiting,  momen-
tary stupefaction, or shivering.
5—9 points: fear, panic, or disorientation—enough to 
