 to the roll for 
random hazards and barriers.

Conflict often arises in the middle of a chase.

If  the  environment  is  unlikely  to  have  any  dangers  or 
delays, such as driving down a quiet freeway, add a bonus 
die to the roll for random hazards and barriers.

Sudden Hazards
Just because an area is free of hazards one moment does not 
mean that it will remain that way. A car may suddenly pull 
out, a pedestrian might run into the road without looking, 
someone might come running around the corner from the 
opposite direction, a loose dog might assault a fleeing inves-
tigator, and so on. 

At  any  point  in  the  chase  round,  either  the  Keeper  or 
a  player  may  call  for  a  group  Luck  roll.  If  the  Luck  roll  is 
passed, events unfold in the player’s favor; the players may 
dictate where and when a sudden hazard occurs. If the Luck 
roll is failed, this indicates a sudden hazard for the investiga-
tors, presented by the Keeper.

Sudden hazards should be of Regular difficulty. Players 
and Keeper should alternate in calling for Luck rolls for sud-
den hazards. If the players call for a Luck roll for a sudden 
hazard, they may not call for one again until after the Keeper 
has called for one and vice versa. Either side may call for the 
first sudden hazard in a chase.

If a chase is becoming a long drawn out affair, the Keeper 
may decide to raise the level of difficulty of sudden hazards.

Pedal to the Metal
When  spending  a  movement  action  to  move  a  vehicle 
forward, instead of moving just 1 location, the vehicle can 
accelerate and move between 2 and 5 locations for the same 
cost of 1 movement action.

139 

chapter 7: chasesHarvey is being chased through Arkham by two police patrol cars. Harvey has 1 movement action, the police have 2. 
Harvey has the higher DEX and moves first in the round.
Harvey’s turn:

His player wants to accelerate and asks how far Harvey can see. The Keeper decides that Harvey can see the next three 
locations, then rolls randomly to determine what they are. The Keeper rolls 29 and 02—2 consecutive clear locations. The 
Keeper then rolls 87 for the third location—a hazard of Hard difficulty level. The Keeper tells the player that Harvey has 
a quiet road in front of him, but up ahead he can see a traffic jam. 

Hazards:

Start of the Round:

Police 1

Police 2

Harvey

jam

Harvey puts his foot down, choosing to move 2 locations with his 1 movement action (using the Pedal to the Metal option 
—see below). No one has called for a sudden hazard yet this round, and the Keeper does so now before Harvey actually 
moves, hoping to throw something in Harvey’s way as he accelerates down the open road. Harvey’s player wins the Luck 
roll and she puts the hazard into play right in front of the police car, telling how a delivery truck pulls out in front of the 
police car without looking. In the meantime, Harvey moves on 2 locations.

Hazards:

truck

Police 1

Police 2

Police cars’ turn:

jam

Harvey

P2, the lead police car, spends a movement action to advance 1 location. The Keeper must make a Drive Auto roll for 
the police car (P2) at Regular difficulty level, but fails. The cop car clips the delivery truck. The Keeper chooses a “minor 
incident”. The police car loses 1 (1D3) build point and 2 (1D3) movement actions, sending it spinning into the curb. At 
the end of its turn, the police car (P2) owes 1 movement action, which will reduce its number of actions next round to 1. 
As a reminder, a note is made to the car’s marker on the Keeper’s track:

Hazards:

truck

Police 2 (-1)

P1, the other police car, can see Harvey getting away and acceler