 cloud about the size of a moderately large 
building—near the top of the mountain. Curtis, who held 
the instrument, dropped it with a piercing shriek into the 
ankle-deep mud of the road. He reeled, and would have 
crumpled to the ground had not two or three others seized 
and steadied him. All he could do was moan half-inaudibly.
—H.P. Lovecraft, The Dunwich Horror

This spell makes visible magically invisible things by blowing 
the  powder  against  or  over  the  invisible  thing.  The  powder 
must  be  compounded  carefully,  according  to  exacting  in-
structions,  and  involves  three  special  ingredients  and  the 
sacrifice of 1 magic point per dose. A dose is one application 
of the powder. The Keeper determines the special ingredients. 
The powder is either blown from a tube or thrown over 
the target. The thing that is dusted stays visible for no more 
than ten heartbeats.

That which could be made visible includes the magical 
lines extending from a place enchanted for the Calling of a 
Mythos deity, the aura around a Gate, or a creature that is 
normally invisible, such as a star vampire. Using the powder 
costs no Sanity points, but seeing what it exposes may.

Alternative names: Dust of Seeing, Witness of the Unseen, 

Compound of Perception.

This spell creates an ankh (looped cross) that can temporar-
ily or permanently banish individual Mythos creatures. The 
object must be an ankh made of an unalloyed metal—pure 
copper, iron, silver, gold, or lead would be the easiest metals 
to find and to form. For 20 minus a number of days equal 
to one-fifth of the caster’s INT, the caster performs episodic 
rites and sacrifices, and then sacrifices the necessary POW 
and Sanity points to enchant the ankh.

To  combat  the  Mythos,  the  caster  intones  a  chant  for 
three  rounds  and  expends  any  number  of  magic  points. 
Companions  of  the  caster  may  contribute  1  magic  point 
each; in token of the 25 POW already sacrificed, the caster 
adds 5 free magic points as well. For the spell to take effect 
the caster must succeed in an opposed POW roll with the 
target. If a number of magic points equal to or greater than 
one-fifth of target’s POW are spent, the caster gains a bonus 
die  on  the  opposed  POW  roll.  In  addition,  the  limitation 
of affecting beings of higher POW is increased, so that the 
caster may challenge a being with POW equal to his or hers 
plus 200.

Any  person  who  knows  the  chant  may  wield  the  ankh 
and attempt to banish a creature, but does not get the five 
magic-point  increase  granted  to  the  original  caster.  If  the 
ankh-wielder and companions overcome the creature, it is 
dispelled to its home plane. If they fail to dispel the thing, it 
attacks the ankh-wielder first before turning its attention to 
others present.

Alternative  names:  Sigil  of  Banishment,  The  Icon  of 

Expulsion.

Red Sign of Shudde M’ell
Cost:  3  magic  points;  1D8  Sanity  points;  1  hit  point  per 
round
Casting time: 1 round

An  awful  spell  that  causes  one  or  several  victims  to  die 
horribly. The caster inscribes in the air the dreaded sign of 
Shudde M’ell, while speaking words of power. When formed 
correctly, a dull red symbol glows in the air as the caster’s 
finger  describes  it.  The  sign’s  malevolent  effects  manifest 
the round after its creation. Once formed, the sign must be 
maintained by concentration