 cost for transfer is 1 magic 
point, he or she can stay there indefinitely.

Alternative  names:  Vice  Versa  Incantation,  Rite  of  Ex-

change, The Cloak of Another’s Flesh.

Mind Transfer
Cost: 10 magic points; 1D10 Sanity points
Casting time: 5 rounds or more

A  powerful  spell  allowing  the  caster  to  permanently  trade 
minds with a target, perhaps to attain longer life at the tar-
get’s expense. 

For the spell to take effect the caster must succeed in an 
opposed POW roll with the target. With success, the caster 
loses 1D10 Sanity points and the victim loses 1D20 Sanity 
points.  If  the  exchange  fails,  the  caster  must  immediately 
cast the spell again (losing 10 more magic points) or his or 
her soul dissipates into eternity. Once the transfer is begun, 
it cannot be broken off.

A  successful  casting  means  that  the  caster  has  perma-
nently taken control of the target’s body. The caster’s previ-
ous body is now a hollow, dead thing. As for the mind of the 
target, conjecture suggests that it is expelled from the body 
and thus dies; however some hint that it remains inside its 
own body, subservient to the caster’s mind and locked in a 
permanent state of horrific madness. 

Deeper Version
Wizards, fearful of death or eager to ensure longevity, 
may prepare the Mind Transfer spell many years in ad-
vance of its casting. Such preparations usually concern 
some personal item (such as a portrait or diary), wherein 
the spell is keyed, awaiting the right conditions for it to 
come to fruition. Often the key is some future descen-
dant of the caster who unknowingly activates the spell.

260 

Call of CthulhuMirror of Tarkhun Atep
Cost: 5 magic points; 1 Sanity point
Casting time: half a day

Prinn’s Crux Ansata
Cost: 25 POW; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: variable days

As a harassment or warning, the caster is able to project his 
or her image onto the surface of a mirror, or mirroring sur-
face, that is being gazed into by the caster’s intended victim. 
The victim can be anywhere on Earth. The caster needs 
a mirror large enough to reflect his or her head and neck. 
Gazing into this mirror and keeping an image of the target 
in  mind,  he  or  she  utters  the  short  incantation  and  waits. 
When the target next looks into a darkened window, a mir-
ror,  or  any  other  reflective  surface,  an  image  of  the  caster 
begins to form. If the caster tires before the target looks into 
a mirror, that loss of attention breaks the spell.

Sometimes  the  mirror  image  of  the  caster  is  looking 
directly into the eyes of the victim. At other times the caster 
is seen standing directly behind the victim in the reflection. 
If the victim wears glasses, images reflected from the lenses 
may even be resolved. The target can hear words and short 
phrases  uttered  by  the  caster.  The  caster  can  see  through 
his or her mirror as well, and see the target and the target’s 
surroundings.

Alternative  names:  The  Silvery  Warning,  Reflection  of 

Hate, The All-Seeing Eye.

Powder of Ibn-Ghazi
Cost: 1 magic point per dose 
Casting time: 2 days' preparation, 1 round to apply

Those without the telescope saw only an instant’s flash of 
grey cloud—a cloud about the size of a moderately large 
building—near the top of the mountain. Curtis, who held 
the instrument, dropped it with a piercing shriek into the 
ankle-deep mud of the road. He reeled, and would have 
crumpled to the ground had not two or three