on  People  of  Mali 
revere amphibious, fishlike ancestor spirits who came 
to Earth in the distant past, as twins from an invisible 
star, whose return will herald a new age.

Keen observers state that the growth of the Esoteric 
Order of Dagon, popular with the residents of seaports 
and towns along the New England coast, is something 
to be watched closely.

Some  claim  that  Dagon  and  Hydra  are  but  facets 
or  avatars  of  Great  Cthulhu,  being  the  elements  or 
portions of that immense being that were not trapped 
in R’lyeh beneath the ocean.

These beings are enormous writhing masses, formed out of 
ropy black tentacles. Here and there over the surfaces of the 
things are great puckered mouths that drip green goo. 

Beneath the creatures, tentacles end in black hooves, on 
which they stamp. The monsters roughly resemble trees in 
silhouette—the  trunks  being  the  short  legs,  and  the  tops 
of the trees represented by the ropy, branching bodies. The 
whole  mass  of  these  things  smell  like  open  graves.  Dark 
young stand between 12 and 20 feet tall.

Such entities are the “young” referred to in Shub-Niggu-
rath’s epithet, “Black Goat of the Woods with a Thousand 
Young.”  They  are  closely  connected  to  her,  and  are  found 
only  in  areas  where  she  is  worshiped.  Dark  young  act  as 
proxies  for  Shub-Niggurath  in  accepting  sacrifices,  ac-
cepting worship from cultists, devouring non-cultists, and 
spreading their mother’s faith across the world. Luckily, they 
are rarely met with.

SPECIAL POWERS 

Spells: Each dark young knows a number of spells equal to 
a tenth of its INT.

averages 
220  
80 
220 
80  
70  
90 

rolls
(4D6+30 ×5)
(3D6+6 ×5)
(4D6+30 ×5)
(3D6+6 ×5)
(4D6 ×5) 
(5D6 ×5) 

DARK YOUNG of Shub-Niggurath
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
HP: 30
Average Damage Bonus: 4D6
Average Build: 5
Average Magic Points: 18
Move: 8

Dark Young

Dark Young

Something black in the road, something that wasn’t a tree. 
Something big and black and ropy, just squatting there, 
waiting, with ropy arms squirming and reaching… It came 
crawling up the hillside…and it was the black thing of 
my dreams—that black, ropy, slimy jelly tree-thing out of 
the woods. It crawled up and it flowed up on its hoofs and 
mouths and snaky arms.

—Robert Bloch, Notebook Found in a Deserted House

287 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsATTACKS
Attacks per round: 5. Dark young may only use a Trample attack 

once per round.

Fighting attacks: In its masses of tentacles, a typical dark young 
has four thicker sinuous tentacles with which it attacks. Each 
of these thicker tentacles can strike out to injure. It may also 
kick out with its hooves, simply crush, or strike with its massive 
bulk.

Grab  (mnvr):  The  Dark  young  can  use  its  tentacles  to  grab  and 
capture  up  to  four  victims.  If  a  victim  is  grabbed,  he  or  she 
is held to one of the horrible sucking mouths and drained of 
1D10+5 STR per round. This STR loss can-
not  be  restored.  While  being  drained, 
a  victim  is  capable