, while speaking words of power. When formed 
correctly, a dull red symbol glows in the air as the caster’s 
finger  describes  it.  The  sign’s  malevolent  effects  manifest 
the round after its creation. Once formed, the sign must be 
maintained by concentration and the expenditure of 3 more 
magic points each additional round.

All those within 10 yards of the sign lose 1D3 hit points 
per  round  as  their  bodies  quake  and  spasm,  and  their 
internal  organs  and  blood  vessels  convulse.  Those  further 
than 10 yards but nearer than 30 yards lose 1 hit point each 
round. Those further than 30 yards take no damage. 

It is possible to escape the sign’s effect by crawling be-
hind a stout wall or other opaque barrier. The caster must 
stand  next  to  the  sign  and  concentrate.  The  caster  loses  1 
hit point each round because of their proximity to the sign.
Alternative names: The Red Sign, The Mark of Fiery Pain.

261 

chapter 12: grimoireDeeper Version
The  caster  may  empower  the  red  sign  further  by  in-
vesting 5 POW into its creation. This done, the sign 
causes 1D6 hit points loss per round to those within 
10 yards and 2 hit points loss to those within 30 yards. 
Alternatively,  the  caster  may  elect  to  cause  the 
sign  to  expel  its  dark  energy  in  a  single  blast.  The 
caster creates the sign as usual and invests it with 10 
POW. On 1D4 rounds following, the sign will explode 
in blaze of red light causing 2D8 damage to everything 
within 50 yards (including the caster).

Shrivelling
Cost: Variable magic points; Sanity points
Casting time: Instantaneous 

A powerful offensive spell causing physical injury to a tar-
get. The caster invests as many magic points as desired and 
that  number  halved  in  Sanity  points.  For  the  spell  to  take 
effect the caster must succeed in an opposed POW roll with 
the target. If successful, the target is subjected to a sudden 
and terrifying blast of energy, causing flesh to blacken and 
wither. The target loses 1 hit point per magic point invested 
in the spell. 

Alternative  names:  Shriving,  The  Withering  Blast  of 

Death, The Black Words.

Resurrection
Cost: 3 magic points; 1D10 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 or 2 rounds

He turned from the inscriptions to face the room with its 
bizarre contents, and saw that the kylix on the floor, in which 
the ominous efflorescent powder had lain, was giving forth 
a cloud of thick, greenish-black vapour of surprising volume 
and opacity.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Case of Charles Dexter Ward

The  spell  reduces  a  corpse  to  its  essential  salts  and  com-
pounds,  a  bluish-grey  powder,  or  reverses  the  process  to 
yield ultimately the form and soul of the deceased. A com-
plete corpse is necessary. 

Being Resurrected in this manner costs the victim 1D20 

Sanity points.

If only part of the ashy powder is available for the spell, 
the sorcerer gets “onlie the liveliest awfullness” from what’s 
then made flesh. But the successfully resurrected need not 
be all in one piece—as long as the coffin is intact and suffi-
cient care is taken to scrape together all the fragments and 
dust within, the spell succeeds.

Reciting the spell backward returns the resurrected enti-
ty to dust and likewise requires the expenditure of 3 magic 
points  and  1D10  Sanity  points.  The  dust  can  be  retained 
or thrown away. For the spell to take effect the