Harvey

Brian

The illustration shows the Keeper’s record of the chase. The Keeper notes only the characters, hazards and barriers.

Cultist A and B stand at the window, about to climb out.
Cultist C has gone through the window and is now in the yard behind Harvey. 
Harvey (H) is in the backyard, about to climb the fence.
Brian (B) is out in front, in the alleyway, having scaled the fence already.

4. Movement actions: Harvey has 1 movement action and is the slowest character in the chase. Cultists A and B both 
get 3 movement actions (1 default, plus 2 more for having MOV speeds of 2 more than Harvey). Brian gets 4 movement 
actions (1 default, plus 3 more for having a MOV speed of 3 more than Harvey). Cultist C gets 5 movement actions (1 
default, plus 4 more for having a MOV speed of 4 more than Harvey).
5. DEX order: Brian has the highest DEX, followed by Harvey, then the cultists. The Keeper is using the same statistics for 
each of the cultists; since they all have the same DEX, it does not matter what order they act in.
Round 1:

Notice how the Keeper has “cut to the chase” (see page 133). Brian, the lead cultist, and Harvey were not required to 
make rolls for climbing out of the window, and Brian is already over the fence. These things are simply allowed to have 
occurred as a result of the speed roll.

148 

Call of CthulhuBrian’s turn:
Brian moves first, running 4 spaces up the alley. The Keeper allows for all four spaces to be open locations; the Keeper 

is quite happy to have one investigator trapped, abandoned by his friends!

Harvey’s turn:
Harvey has to climb over the fence (barrier). Knowing the cultists are close behind, he leaps at it heedless of any 
danger. This costs him his only movement action. His Climb skill roll is a failure. Since the Keeper has ruled that the fence 
is a barrier and since Harvey failed his Climb roll, he has not crossed the fence and does not move on. His turn ends. The 
Keeper does not apply any damage for failing to climb the fence—the fact that cultists are about to attack him is sufficient. 
If Harvey wishes to climb over the fence, he must make another attempt next round.

Cultist C’s turn:
Using two of his actions, Cultist C runs across to Harvey and spends a third movement action to attack him (see Part 

4: Conflict, page 138).

At present, part way through round 1, the Keeper’s map looks like this:

window

fence

CultistA
CultistB

Harvey
Cultist C

Brian

Harvey is struggling to climb the fence when he is attacked by cultist C, and decides to kick out (fight back) at the 
cultist. The cultist attempts a fighting maneuver to grab hold of Harvey and pull him off of the fence. The cultist’s build 
is 0, the same as Harvey’s, so no bonus or penalty dice are awarded for the fighting maneuver.

59 is rolled for Harvey—a Failure.
20 is rolled for the cultist—a Regular success.
The cultist pulls Harvey from the fence, choosing to throw him back one location, into the middle of the yard. The 
cultist has made an attack and cannot initiate another attack this round, even though he has 2 movement actions re-
maining. He uses his fourth movement action to move back to Harvey. Cultist C still has 1 movement action left, but does 
not wish to move further, and his turn ends.

Cultist B’s turn: 
It is now the turn of Cultist B, who requires a skill roll to climb down from the window (one story) to the backyard. 
Cultist B, seeing Harvey lying vulnerable in the yard, takes a reckless approach, jumping from the window rather than 
climbing. The Keeper decides the difficulty level of the climb roll would be Regular, but raises this to Hard difficulty level 
for a jump. The Keeper rolls a failure for the cult