SIZ  
DEX 
POW 
HP: 9
Average Damage Bonus: none
Average Build: 0
Move: 12

rolls
(2D6+6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)
(2D6+1 ×5
(2D6+6 ×5) 
(3D6 ×5)

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Teeth, claws and mauling.
Fighting 50% (25/10), damage 1D8 + damage bonus 
Dodge 32% (16/6)
Armor: 1-point fur
Skills: Track (by smell) 90%, Spot Hidden 60%
Habitat: Approximately  the  same  ranges  as  larger  cold  and  tem-

perate climate ruminants and herbivores.

Gray Wolf

Optional Rules

An Optional Structure for 
the Cthulhu Mythos
Lovecraft wrote many wonderful stories, but each of them 
stood  alone  rather  than  being  part  of  a  cohesive  whole. 
There were of course some common named elements within 
his  stories,  certain  places,  characters,  books,  gods,  and  so 
forth, but when one looks closely these are rarely repeated 
or developed. The stronger commonality is less tangible; a 
certain feel and atmosphere that Lovecraft sought to capture 
in  his  "weird  tales".  The  repeated  story  elements  are  more 
easily latched onto, and form the body of what has become 
known as the Cthulhu Mythos. 

Real  world  myths  have  inconsistencies  and  contradic-
tions,  and  this  is  also  true  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos.  It  is 
these very inconsistencies and contradictions that make the 
Cthulhu  Mythos  such  fertile  ground  for  others  to  cultivate 
their own story-seeds. As Keeper, you should feel empowered 
to make your own decisions, using the various entities, dei-
ties, tomes, and so on as building blocks to create your own 
unique stories. The Cthulhu Mythos is meant to be beyond 
man’s understanding, so for this book to attempt to define it 
too closely may prove counterproductive for the reader.

Some have tried to define a pantheon of Mythos gods or 
to classify them into a hierarchy of Elder Gods, Other Gods, 
Outer  Gods,  Great  Old  Ones,  and  so  on.  These  differing 
classifications of the Mythos entities are not set in stone and 
provided  merely  as  a  guide  for  those  who  might  prefer  a 
more definite structure. 

Outer Gods, Elder Gods, Other Gods
Depending on which author one reads, the universe is ruled 
by beings variously known as the Elder Gods, Outer Gods, 
or  Other  Gods.  Only  a  few  of  these  deities  are  known  by 
name.  The  majority  are  both  blind  and  idiotic.  They  are 
all  extremely  powerful  alien  beings  and  some  may  be  of 
extra-cosmic origin.

The Outer Gods rule the universe and have little to do 
with humanity, except for Nyarlathotep. Humans meddling 
with  these  entities  suffer  for  it,  usually  ending  up  mad  or 
dead. Names for a few Outer Gods are known. They appear 
almost  to  be  true  gods,  as  opposed  to  the  alien  horror  of 
the Great Old Ones, and some may personify cosmic prin-
ciples.  Only  a  few  of  these  deities  seem  to  take  interest  in 
human affairs or to acknowledge the existence of the human 
race. When  they  do,  they  often  are  shown  trying  to  break 
through cosmic walls or dimensions in order to wreak new 
destruction.  All  the  races 