 than persuasion. The cultist has low Intimidate 
and  Psychology  (both  below  50%),  so  the  difficulty 
level starts at Regular. Given the cultist’s motivation, 
the  Keeper  raises  the  level  of  difficulty  to  Extreme. 
There is a slim that chance the cultist will crack!

In  this  case,  Hasna’s  goal  is  possible  as  the  cultist 
is  relatively  ineffective;  however,  if  the  cultist  had  an 
Intimidate or Psychology skill over 50%, the initial dif-
ficulty level would be Hard, and by raising the difficulty 
level by two steps the goal would become impossible. In 
that case the cultist would not crack unless Hasna could 
do something to “up her game,” such as using threats of, 
or actual, violence (in the case of Intimidate). 

Violence and Sanity Rolls
Intimidation  may  use  threats  of  physical  violence.  One 
suggested consequence of losing a pushed Intimidation roll 
is to have the investigator unintentionally carry out his or 
her threat. The player may not want to shoot the non-player 
character in the kneecap, but pushing the roll can result in 
unwanted outcomes. The use of such violence in that situ-
ation would constitute torture, and the Keeper may wish to 
ask for Sanity rolls for the participating investigators.

Taking a life in a game is easy—we grew up doing it in 
make-up games as children, we do it in video games, we watch 
it on television, and so on. Actually doing it in real life is a 
whole other matter. You may wish to reflect this in your game 
by calling for a Sanity roll (SAN 0/1D6) when an investigator 
first kills a person, whether or not it is in cold blood.

Cold-blooded murder is especially difficult, and an in-
vestigator may find themselves incapable of doing it. Such 
callous behavior may require the player to fail a Sanity roll 

197 

chapter 10: playing the gamebefore they are able to pull the trigger on a fellow human 
being. There is, after all, a word for people who can carry out 
such  acts  without  flinching—psychopaths.  A  psychopath 
would  have  a  low  Sanity  and  thus  be  able  to  do  such  acts 
without their conscience stepping in to prevent them.

Pacing the Game
Your role is like that of an orchestra conductor: you set the 
tempo.  Giving  a  good  pace  to  the  game  can  be  essential, 
keeping everyone interested and excited. Some scenes have 
a  natural  end  and  the  game  progresses  organically;  others 
have  the  risk  of  becoming  overextended  and  dull.  Try  to 
keep things moving, but bear in mind that sometimes the 
players need a chance to catch their breath and review the 
situation.  Combats  and  chases  demand  fast-paced  action 
and  quick  decisions  from  yourself  and  the  players.  Some-
times the players may disagree about how to proceed. When 
two players get caught up in a discussion about whether to 
stay in the musty old cellar or to make a break for freedom, 
you can take a step back and give them time to talk and work 
things out. If the players are animated you can take that as a 
sure sign that they are enjoying the game. If players are argu-
ing about rules then you should offer arbitration; otherwise 
just sit back and rest your voice for a while.

If everyone is enjoying themselves, there’s no problem; 
however, if some players are getting bored or the discussion 
is becoming repetitive, you should move things on. Do what 
you  can  to  introduce  some  drama  and  push  the  players 
towards some form of action. For example, have a desperate 
non-player character call upon the investigators for aid. An-
other option is to discuss the likelihood of