  in  the  direction  of  the 
investigators. The Keeper gives everyone a chance to 
dive for cover. Four of the investigators dive for cover 
(two  are  successful,  two  fail);  everyone  else  stands 
their ground. The Keeper allocates every investigator 
and non-player character a number from one to ten, 
then rolls 1D10 three times to decide who is shot at. 
One non-player character, one investigator that stood 
his ground and one that dived for cover are targeted 
by the bullets. Each attack is then resolved using the 
usual rules.

Once those that wished to dive for cover have done so, 
the Keeper should determine the target or targets from the 
original  group  at  random,  including  those  that  chose  to 
dive for cover. Those that successfully dived for cover will of 
course be harder to hit.

Armor Revisited
Shotguns  fire  a  mass  of  small  pellets,  each  of  which  must 
pierce any armor. The damage for shotguns is rolled using a 
number of six-sided dice. Armor ratings are factored against 
every D6 when rolling shotgun damage. Thus, if an attack 
with a shotgun hits a target wearing a leather jacket (1 point 
of armor), that one point of armor is deducted from each 
and  every  damage  die,  reducing  a  attack  that  deals  4D6 
damage by 4 points.

Some forms of armor offer protection to specific parts of 
the body; for example, a helmet protects the head. The stan-
dard Call of Cthulhu combat rules do not use hit locations 
(see the Optional Hit Location rules below). In the general 
rough-and-tumble of a fist-fight or a fall from a window, it 
is credible that armoring specific parts of the body (such as 
the head) will reduce the overall damage received, and in the 
interest  of  simplicity  and  the  flow  of  the  game  no  further 
rolls need be made. 

However the case of a single specific attack (such as being 
shot) raises the question of whether the shot was to an area 
protected by armor. In the case of such an attack, a Luck roll 
is required. If the Luck roll is successful, the armor was hit 
and the damage is reduced by the armor value. If the Luck 
roll is failed, the attack hit an area not protected by armor. A 
character wearing armor that protects both head and torso 
gains a bonus die on their Luck roll for armor protection. 

A  character  wearing  armor  all  over  their  body  or  pos-
sessing natural armor such as that of an elephant’s skin does 
not require a Luck roll; it applies in all cases. If a weakness 
is spotted in an enemy’s armor—a vulnerable spot, such as 
an open mouth or eye—that area may be targeted, and the 
Keeper should set an increased level of difficulty or penalty 
dice for the attempt.

Optional Hit Locations
Rather  than  using  Luck  to  determine  if  an  armored  part 
of  the  body  has  been  hit,  roll  1D20  and  consult  Table IV: 
Optional Hit Locations.

Sights
Telescopic  sights  effectively  double  the  base  range  when 
using firearms. If using sights with a.303 Lee Enfield rifle 
(base  range  of  110  yards),  for  example,  the  difficulty  level 
would not be increased until the range exceeded 220 yards 
with Extreme range being from 440 to 880 yards. Sights are 
of no benefit at point-blank range.

126 

Call of CthulhuBracing
Bracing a firearm, such as using a bipod, tripod or a mount-
ed weapon, effectively doubles the base range for the weap-
on. Where the weapon is mechanically braced to a structure 
(vehicle or building) the user gains a bonus die.

Movement During Combat
Combat  is  usually  described  narratively,  so  the  distance 
between combat