 it causes mayhem and 
death.

The Ticking Bomb: Though the investigators will 
not at first be aware of it, a countdown is in operation 
and, if it is allowed to reach zero, there will be blood. 
Simply returning the papers is not enough and those 
who do not deal with the Horror bound within will be 
in for an unpleasant surprise later, as the monster kills 
the Dean and then anyone else who has touched the 
papers—including the investigators!

chapter 15: scenarioscannot be gathered quickly, however Fal-
lon himself cannot be seen to be involved. 
Thus the investigators are called upon, but 
they are far from the only ones interested 
in  these  particular  letters,  and  the  forces 
bound  within  the  papers  themselves  are 
getting restless. 

So where are the papers and who has 

them? That’s for the Keeper to decide. 

Scenario Format
The course of this scenario is determined 
by  the  investigator’s  actions  (and  there-
fore  the  player’s  decisions).  Facts  and 
clues  lie  around  the  affairs  of  the  dead 
man and those who knew him, and it’s up 
to the investigators which lines of enquiry 
to pursue. Importantly, no single clue or 
its discovery is vital to the scenario’s out-
come; it is instead rather the tapestry of 
what the investigators do and what they 
discover  that  will  lead  to  the  scenario’s 
conclusion  for  good  or  ill.  Beyond  this 
loose framework, there is—if the Keeper 
wishes to use it—the optional factor of a 
deadline involved, as something has been 
unleashed  from  the  Witch  Trial  Papers; 
the  same  thing  that  killed  Leiter  in  his 
locked office at the Miskatonic Universi-
ty, a thing that now wishes to be free and, 
unless stopped, might cause considerable 
havoc  and  murder  in  its  passing.  See 
Manifestations  of  Horror  on  page  379 
for more details on this.

Most  of  the  key  facts  and  secrets 
of  this  mystery  are  to  be  found  not  in 
locked  drawers  or  hidden  rooms,  but 
in  the  minds  and  desires  of  the  people 
surrounding the death of Charles Leiter. 
Rather  than  a  list  of  locations  and  en-
counters, the "meat" of this adventure is 
a  detailed  dramatis  personae—a  cast  of 
characters,  whose  secrets  and  motiva-
tions the Keeper should become familiar 
with, and most importantly, decide who 
is the culprit.

Investigators  will  need  to  extract 
information from the various non-player 
characters  (NPCs)  and  so  will  need  to 
employ communication skills (Fast Talk, 
Persuade,  Charm,  Intimidate,  as  well  as 
Psychology).  Keepers  are  recommended 
to  revisit  both  the  various  skill  descrip-
tions  and  the  section  on  Charm,  Fast 
Talk,  Intimidate,  and  Persuade  skills: 
Difficulty Levels (see page 93). Wherever 
possible, try to encourage the players to 

Timeline of Past Events  
Leading up to the Adventure

Present year: 192—
February:  Joshua  Hobbhouse,  last  of  his  line,  dies  a  recluse  in  his 
manse outside of Arkham.
April: The Hobbhouse estate passes into the hands of the Cobb family 
of Providence.
June: The Cobb family enters into an agreement with the Miskatonic 
University to assay and collate the Hobbhouse papers and library. Pro-
fessor Charles Leiter successfully lobbies for control of the project at the 
History Faculty.
Late August: Leiter, in need of money after a disastrous gambling trip 
