  deacti-
vates  most  stasis  cubes,  but  some  have  complicated  panels 
allowing  the  programming  of  set  periods  of  stasis.  These 
more complicated devices would likely be incomprehensible 
to someone who did not understand Yithian technology, but 
anyone could use the simpler ones, perhaps even by accident.

Deep ones

The technology of the deep ones is 
almost unrecognizable to humans.  
Beyond basic Stone Age constructs, 
most of the technology of the deep 
ones is organic in form. It is believed 
that they discovered the basis of their 
organic technology when they first allied 
with the shoggoths and discovered how 
the elder things had made those  
creatures and how they could be  
controlled. In the modern world, deep 
one cities are not as much constructed 
as grown. On occasion other useful 
tools are grown as well. Technology 
does not influence deep one society 
nearly as much as it does humanity’s, 
but it is still an important force. 

Tabula Rasa Device 

Temporal Communicator 

Used by: Yithians
A device invented by the Yithians to erase the memories of 
those entities they displace through time. It is a small, slim, 
rectangular copper box covered with tiny indentations. From 
one side of the box, five flexible metal tubes extend, ending 
in  inch-long  metal  needles.  The  needles  are  inserted  into 
the victim’s head, which takes five rounds. Once the device 
is activated, the victim is paralyzed unless he or she makes a 
successful POW roll each round that the device is connected.
Each  round  the  machine  erases  up  to  a  year’s  worth 
of memories or removes 5 points of INT, at the operator’s 
discretion. These memories and thoughts are stored in the 
copper box. The erasure of memories is not always totally 
complete.  Every  year  there  is  an  INT  chance  that  some 
memory returns in the form of dreams. The function of this 
device may also be reversed, feeding the stored memories to 
the original victim or alternatively to 

another entity entirely. 

The  tabula  rasa  device  is 
very  complex,  and  can  only 
be used by those familiar with 
Yithian  technology.  Humans 
ignorant of Yithian technolo-
gy would require an Extreme 
INT roll to successful operate 
the  device—failure  would 
indicate  that  the  person 
connected  to  the  machine 
has  suffered  brain  damage 
and the loss of 1D100 INT.

Used by: Yithians
These  devices  are  sometimes  supplied  to  human  agents 
of  the Yithians. When  assembled,  the  device  stands  nearly 
a foot tall. It is made of bronze and covered with intricate 
carvings. A red jewel, attuned to a specific Yithian, is embed-
ded into the top of the machine.

When  power  is  switched  on,  the 

jewel begins to glow red. After a few 
minutes,  contact  is  established 
with the Yithian attuned to the 
jewel. The Yithian may be any 
distance in time or space. A 
hologram  is  projected  and 
the Yithian can see into the 
time and space occupied by 
the  machine  and  thus  may 
communicate  with  those 
who have contacted it. 

A  Yithian 
temporal 
fairly 
communicator 
is 
straightforward  to  operate, 
provided  that  an  investi-
gator  can  understand  and 
determine  which  carving 
turns it on.

Temporal Communicator

Tabula Rasa Device

275 

chapter 13: artifacts and alien deviceshis  chapter  provides  a  selection  of  monsters, 
beasts, and alien beings for use within Call of 
Cthulhu. The chapter is divided into