  to  conduct  research;  bending  the 
letter of the law to drive your argument.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  misinter-
preting a law or stepping outside of the accepted legal proce-
dure leads you to break the law and draws police attention; 
wasting valuable time and money on research and legal fees; 
you are held in contempt of court and thrown in the cells for 
at least 24 hours.

If a Pushed roll is failed, an insane investigator will now 

believe that he or she is above the law.

Library Use (20%)
Library Use enables an investigator to find a piece of infor-
mation, such as a certain book, newspaper, or reference in 
a  library,  collection  of  documents  or  database,  assuming 
the  item  is  there.  Use  of  this  skill  marks  several  hours  of 
continuous search.  

This skill can locate a locked case or rare-book special 
collection,  but  Persuade,  Fast  Talk,  Charm,  Intimidate, 
Credit Rating, or special credentials may have to be used to 
get access to the books or information in question.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: locating a book or piece of infor-

mation in a library.

i  Hard  difficulty:  identifying  a  piece  of  information 
in  a  disorganized  library,  or  if  you  are  extremely 
pressed for time.

67 

chapter 4: skillsPushing examples: pressing the librarian for extensive as-
sistance;  taking  longer  to  systematically  work  through  the 
stacks.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  finding  a 
similar  book,  containing  misleading  information,  which 
will  lead  the  investigators  into  danger;  entanglement  with 
an adversary—perhaps they are alerted to your research and 
act against you, or they check out the book you are searching 
for (or simply tear out the pages in question); getting into 
an  argument  with  the  librarian,  resulting  in  your  library 
membership being revoked.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she hoards 
books, cutting out pages to stick to their bedroom wall, making 
copious bizarre notes, linking the pages with threads of cotton 
and pins. Alternatively, the investigator is obsessed with finding 
the correct book or piece of information, spending all of their 
time pilfering and poring over books. 

Listen (20%)
Measures the ability of an investigator to interpret and un-
derstand sound, including overheard conversations, mutters 
behind a  closed door, and whispered words in a cafe. The 
Keeper may use it to determine the course of an impending 
encounter: was your investigator awakened by that cracking 
twig? By extension, a high Listen skill can indicate a good 
level of general awareness in a character.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Listen can be opposed by Stealth when someone is creeping 
up on you.

i  Regular  difficulty:  hearing  something  approaching 
you (with a Stealth skill of below 50); eavesdropping 
on a nearby conversation.

i  Hard difficulty: hearing something creep up on you 
(with a Stealth skill of 50 to 89); eavesdropping on 
whispered conversation.

Pushing examples: stopping dead still and listening; getting 
closer to the presumed source (e.g. putting your ear to the 
train track or the door); telling everyone to be quiet (mak-
ing a noise yourself) and then listening.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the "thing" 
has caught you unawares (you are surprised); you misheard 
the conversation and get the facts mixed up; you are caught 
trying to eavesdrop, and find yourself in a very embarrassing 
predicament.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she be-
comes overly sensitive to all sounds and is unable to operate 
without earplugs or similar.

Lock