  is  out  of  action.  Each  full  10  hit 
points of damage decreases a vehicle’s build by 1 point (round 
down); damage below 10 hit points is ignored.

If  a  vehicle’s  build  is  reduced  to  half  (round  down)  of  its 
starting value or lower, it is impaired; one penalty die is applied 
to all Drive Auto (or appropriate skill) rolls.

If a vehicle takes damage equal to its full build value in one 
incident,  the  vehicle  is  completely  wrecked  in  an  impressive 
manner. It may explode, burn, roll or suffer some combination 
thereof. All occupants of the vehicle are likely to die. Whether or 
not investigators have a chance of survival is up to the Keeper: 
Luck rolls may be allowed. Those who are fortunate get thrown 
free, though it is recommended they take at least 2D10 damage. 
If a vehicle’s build is otherwise reduced to zero by cumu-
lative  damage  (i.e.  in  increments  of  less  than  the  vehicle’s 
starting build value), it becomes undrivable, grinding to a halt. 
Depending on the situation (and perhaps a Luck roll) this may 
lead to an accident resulting in 1D10 damage for the driver and 
each passenger. 

Armor for people: The armor rating is for the passengers and 
driver,  reflecting  the  number  of  points  of  armor  the  vehicle 
provides against external attacks.

Passengers and crew: The number of people that can be ac-
commodated.

416 

Call of CthulhuGetting Used to the Awfulness
The player records the cumulative Sanity points lost to a given 
Mythos entity (e.g. deep ones); the cumulative loss should 
not exceed the maximum amount for a single encounter with 
that  entity.  Lower  the  recorded  cumulative  loss  by  1  with 
each investigator development phase.

Summary of  
Sanity Rules

Failing a Sanity roll: one involuntary action.

Sanity loss of 5 points or more: make an Intelligence roll—
if successful, temporary insanity ensues.

Sanity  loss  of  one-fifth  or  more  in  one  day:  indefinite 
insanity ensues.

The Phases of Insanity

A  bout  of  madness:  either  "real  time"  (1D10  rounds)  or 
"summary"  (1D10  hours);  Keeper  amends  one  backstory 
detail (phobia, mania, etc.)
Underlying Insanity: any further Sanity loss results in an-
other bout of madness; the investigator is prone to delusions.

The Side-Effects of Insanity
1.  Phobias:  while  insane,  must  fight/flee  or  take  a  penalty 
die on skill rolls.
2.  Manias:  while  insane,  must  submit  to  mania  or  take  a 
penalty die on skill rolls.
3. Delusions and Reality Checks: make a Sanity roll to test 
for delusions:

Failure: lose 1 Sanity point (and undergo a bout of  
madness if insane).
Success: dismiss delusions.

4.  Insanity  and  the  Cthulhu  Mythos:  add  5%  Cthulhu 
Mythos  skill  with  first  bout  of  madness  inspired  by  a 
Mythos-related event. Add 1% on subsequent occasions.

Recovery
From temporary insanity: after 1D10 hours or a good rest.

From indefinite insanity: roll at the end of each month of 
treatment; Keeper may allow automatic recovery during the 
next investigator development phase.

Treatment with private/home care (roll 1D100 per month): 

01–95: success (or under psychoanalysis skill); add 1D3 San-
ity points. Make a Sanity roll—if successful, insanity is cured.
96–100: failure; lose 1D6 Sanity points.

Treatment at institution (roll 