s it on.

Temporal Communicator

Tabula Rasa Device

275 

chapter 13: artifacts and alien deviceshis  chapter  provides  a  selection  of  monsters, 
beasts, and alien beings for use within Call of 
Cthulhu. The chapter is divided into four sec-
tions, each focusing on a specific monster type: 
Cthulhu  Mythos  entities,  Cthulhu  Mythos 
gods, classic monsters, and beasts. The selection of monsters 
across the sections is not exhaustive—every horror fan can 
probably think of some terror not present. The ones here are 
those  found  in  the  most  important  stories,  frequently  ap-
pear in scenarios, or are commonly referred to. Many more 
can  be  found  in  the  Call  of  Cthulhu  supplement  Malleus 
Monstrorum, also from Chaosium.

About the Entries
Most  monsters  and  entities  have  characteristics  including 
STR, CON, SIZ, POW, INT, and DEX. However many do not 
have an APP or EDU, since these qualities are meaningless 
in such alien and horrific creatures. Keepers have full reign 
to alter, modify, and rethink these entries. Lovecraft did not 
codify the monsters in his stories, so neither should you if 
you wish to present dramatically different versions.

These are creatures of nightmare, and individual mon-
sters may vary from one encounter to the next in their char-
acteristics  and  abilities.  The  characteristic  values  given  for 
each monster are those of an average specimen. As Keeper, 
you have the option to roll an individual monster’s statistics, 
or  choose  to  create  a  lesser  or  greater  specimen  using  the 
dice ranges as a guide to generating characteristic values.

Size Comparison 
Charts
The diagrams below illustrate 
various denizens of the Cthulhu 
Mythos, providing some idea of 
the relative size of these  
creatures. Note the various 
unfortunate investigators  
splattered about the monsters. 
Some of these creatures,  
notably Cthulhu, are able to 
alter their mass and size at will; 
the illustration shows only one 
version of such images.

Only full characteristic values (i.e. no halves and fifths) 
are listed for monsters. Non-player character and monster 
characteristics are primarily used to set  the difficulty  level 
of players’ skill rolls. As Keeper, you may occasionally need 
to figure out one-half or one-fifth of a particular monster’s 
characteristic value, but this will be unusual.

Monster Sizes
Certain  monsters  are  staggeringly  huge  when  compared  to 
the human scale, just take a look at the diagram below!

278 

Call of CthulhuBuilds
Along  with  the  characteristic  of  SIZ, 
each monster, character, and vehicle has 
a build value. This figure provides an at 
a glance guide to scale. The average hu-
man has a Build of 0, with the full range 
extending from –2 (children and small 
persons)  to  2  (heavyweight  boxers  for 
example). The build scale is not linear; 
combining  5  motorcycles  would  not 
create something larger than a truck. 

When considering what a being can 
lift or throw, use a standard human as 
a guide. The average human of Build 0 
could lift someone of equal build off the 
floor, perhaps carrying them over their 
shoulder. Something of 1 build smaller 
could  easily  be  lifted,  and  a  thing  of  2 
builds smaller could be thrown. With a 
strain, a human of Build 0 might just lift 
a person of Build 1. The most a person 
of Build 0 might do to a person of Build 
2 is to unbalance them or disarm them.
Using  this  as  a  guide,  it  becomes 
simple  to  figure  the  relative  capability 
of a monster to lift and throw things