,  there  are  no  winners  and  losers  in  the 
standard competitive sense. Play is usually cooperative. The 
participants work together to attain a common goal—usual-
ly to discover and foil some nefarious plot being perpetrated 
by  the  minions  of  some  dark  cult  or  secret  society.  The 
opposition that the investigators face will often be an alien 
or hostile situation—controlled by an impartial Keeper, not 
another player. 

Winning  in  such  a  situation  depends  on  whether  the 
investigators succeed in their goal. Losing is what happens if 
they fail to achieve their goal (they may be able to try again 

12 

Call of Cthulhulater). During the game investigators may become injured, 
suffer sanity-shattering experiences, or even die! However, 
someone has to make a stand against the cosmic horrors of 
the universe and the death of a single investigator matters 
little if it means repulsing Cthulhu’s master plan to enslave 
the Earth! 

Investigators  who  survive  will  gain  power  from  arcane 
volumes of forgotten lore, knowledge of horrendous monsters, 
and advancement in their skills as they become more experi-
enced. Thus the players’ investigators will continue to progress, 
until their demise or retirement—whichever comes first.

Example of Play
If you’ve never played a roleplaying game before, you might 
still be wondering just how it all works. The following ex-
ample  of  play  provides  an  illustration  of  a  typical  gaming 
session. Don’t worry about some of the terms used, as you’ll 
become better acquainted with them as you read the rest of 
this book (there’s also a useful Glossary on page 386).

This  example  game  uses  the  classic  1920s  setting.  The 
investigators  are  trying  to  find  out  why  Boss  Morgan,  a 
notorious gangland figure, has vanished. 

Paula,  Joe,  Cathy  and  Arnold  are  the  players,  each  of 
them  controlling  an  investigator.  Garrie  is  in  the  role  of 
Keeper  and  is  running  the  game  (leading  the  story  and 
controlling  the  non-player  characters  and  monsters  in  the 
game). Notice that while the players have different ways of 
referring to their characters, Garrie the Keeper easily sorts 
out their statements and feels no need for consistency.
We join the game in mid-session…

(GARRIE) KEEPER: Well, guys, what’s your plan?

PAULA:  Let’s  sneak  around  Boss  Morgan’s  house,  looking 
for clues. 

All the investigators agree to Paula’s plan.

JOE: Let’s go! I’ll drive us over in my Hupmobile. Is there 
anyone on the street? We’re leaving at midnight.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: As you arrive at Morgan’s house, you 
see the street is pretty dark as two of the streetlights aren’t 
working. It all looks deserted. Nobody is in sight.

CATHY: My private eye Jake can pick the lock on the back 
door. 

The players agree to the plan.

PAULA: I’ll keep watch from the street

ARNOLD: I’ll stay in the car for now and keep watch—my 
investigator is still very nervous.

JOE: I’ll go with Cathy.

(GARRIE) KEEPER: Cathy and Joe, make Listen rolls.

CATHY: (rolls percentage dice) I succeeded!

JOE: I failed the roll. So, Cathy, what did you hear?

(GARRIE) KEEPER: You hear a creak of wood; sounds like 
the house’s front door quietly opening. Don’t forget to tick 
your Listen skill, as you got a success.

CATHY: Right. (She makes a check mark on her sheet). I’m 
grabbing  Joe  and  attempting  to  hide  behind  the  garbage 
cans