ans? Is there anyone in the 
alley?” the Keeper prompts the player.

“There’s  a  garbage  truck  and  men  emptying 

trashcans into it,” the player states.

“So you’re going to have to dodge around them?”
The Keeper sums up what the player has said and 
defines  the  location  clearly,  writing  it  on  the  sheet. 
“So the next Location is an alley, partially blocked by 
a garbage truck and workers. The alley features one 
hazard requiring a Dodge roll.”

206 

Call of CthulhuPresenting the  
Terrors of the Mythos
In  Chapter  14:  Monsters,  Beasts  and  Alien  Gods,  each 
monster  has  a  description  (usually  taken  directly  from 
a  Mythos  story).  These  are  a  great  place  to  start,  but  you 
should try to build upon these and vary your descriptions so 
that recurring monsters do not become mundane. 

Using  images  to  present  the  horrors  of  the  Cthulhu 
Mythos can be problematic. While the Internet and books 
can  sometimes  provide  approximations  of  some  of  the 
monsters  of  the  Mythos,  they  are  not  always  ideal,  and 
sometimes  detract  from  the  sense  of  horror  that  you  as 
Keeper are trying to portray. Likewise, popping a miniature 
figure of an elder thing onto the gaming table is more likely 
to have the effect of breaking any tension you have built thus 
far (such miniatures can be useful later on, once you have 
fully set the scene and engaged the players with a sense of 
dread or horror).

As many film directors know, the motto “less is more” is 
a  useful  one  to  remember  when  presenting  mind-blasting 
entities from beyond space and time. Try describing mon-
sters  vaguely,  hinting  at  their  otherworldliness  and  letting 
each player’s imagination fill in the blanks. 

Each time you present a monster, present it afresh. Make 
the description intense and visceral. A deep one is never just 
a deep one. It is always a creature from the depths of the sea 
and  old  as  time  itself,  a  creature  whose  very  presence  hits 
you deep in the gut, repelling mankind in a profound man-
ner causing revulsion and nausea. Remember, it is never just 
a deep one.

Take this description of a hound of Tindalos:

“Out of the room’s corner jumps a hound of Tin-

dalos. It’s going to attack you...”

Perhaps we can do a little better:
“You  see  a  strange-looking  dog  appear  from  the 
corner of the room. Its eyes are yellow and its skin a 
pale blue color. It snarls evilly at you, rises on its hind 
legs and leaps towards you...”

Or how about this:
“As  you  look  about  the  room,  a  foul  stench  fills 
your  nostrils. You  find  yourself  choking  on  the  fetid 
air. Your  eyes  turn  irresistibly  towards  the  northeast 
corner as a sickly yellow light appears to leech from the 
walls. The light grows in intensity, burning your eyes. 
It’s difficult to make out, but you begin to see a dark 
shape  emerge  from  the  corner,  out  of  the  repulsive 
yellow light. The hairs on the back of your neck stand 
up as you realize something bad is approaching. You 
hear a terrible, inhuman snarl and you see a pair of 
jaws open, revealing lines of razor-sharp teeth...”

By setting the tone and using appropriate descrip-

tion, the player’s imagination will do the rest.

Playing Alien Entities

Then, too, there was the upsetting of the larder, the disap-
pearance of certain staples, and the jarringly comical