ner, The Salem Horror

Nyogtha is a minor deity reported to inhabit underground 
caverns  on  Earth.  It  may  be  related  to  Cthulhu.  Nyogtha 
resembles a blob of living darkness that may throw out black 
tentacles or pseudopods at will.

Cult
Nyogtha has a few worshipers, mostly witches and their ilk. 
It  teaches  them  spells  on  occasion  in  return  for  sacrifices 
and  POW.  In  the  Dreamlands,  Nyogtha  is  worshiped  by  a 
band of ghouls.

Some  ghouls  in  the  Waking  World  may  practice  this 

worship as well.

NYOGTHA, The Thing That Should Not Be
STR 425 
POW 140  HP 60
Damage Bonus: Made of such substance that damage bonus is not 

CON 200 

DEX 100 

INT 100

SIZ 400 

applicable

Build: 10
Magic Points: 28
Move: 10

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1

Nyogtha

Fighting attacks: If Nyogtha strikes for damage, each target within 
10 yards takes 1D10 points of  damage from numerous small 
wounds.

Unless driven off by appropriate spells, Nyogtha grabs and drags its 

victim off to underground pits. 

Fighting 100% (50/20), damage 1D10 to all within 10 yards 
Armor: Ignores the first 10 points of damage received each round 
from all sources; at 0 hit points, Nyogtha is dispelled and will 
leave.

Spells: All Call and Contact spells; Create Gate. 
Sanity Loss: 1D6/1D20 Sanity points to see Nyogtha.

Rhan-Tegoth
An almost globular torso, with six long, sinuous limbs terminat-
ing in crab-like claws. From the upper end a subsidiary globe 
bulged forward bubble-like; its triangle of three staring, fishy eyes, 
its foot-long and evidently flexible proboscis, and a distended 
lateral system analogous to gills suggested that it was a head.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Horror in the Museum

This  minor  god  ruled  what  is  Alaska  today,  feeding  on 
stringy  hominids  who  ran  squealing  before  his  might. 
Perhaps as late as the last glacial cycle, Rhan-Tegoth entered 
into a deep hibernation from which he would not or could 
not wake. Rediscovered by modern men, most mistake the 
unmoving god for a ghastly statue.

Cult
In ancient times Rhan-Tegoth was worshiped by a primitive 
human people, perhaps of the Inuit. Since he has gone into 
hibernation, his cult has faded. The bestial gnoph-keh of the 
northern  wastes  may  also  have  some  relation  with  Rhan-
Tegoth.

Other Characteristics
A fetid amphibian-like being, he requires blood sacrifices of 
at least SIZ 75 daily. To feed, he grasps a screaming victim 
and draws him or her into the mass of tentacles. There the 
tentacles begin to drain the prey of blood, organic fluids, and 
5 STR points per round. For every 10 such points, increase 

324 

Call of CthulhuRhan-Tegoth

Cult
Worshiped  extensively,  she  may  have  connections  with 
druids  and  similar  groups. Worshipers  of  Shub-Niggurath 
generally form into gangs or congregations, as do Cthulhu’s 
cultists. Her emissaries and stand-ins, the dark young, may 
represent the aid she grants worshipers.

Summoned,  Shub-Niggurath  attacks  non-worshipers 

present.

She is often summoned specifically to accept sacrifices. 
Shub-Niggurath can be dismissed by those who know her 
