of the investigator with the highest Spot Hidden score.

The investigators are looking for a cultist in the town. 
The Keeper has prepared a cool scene that takes place 
in a haunted house; however, the players don’t know 
about  it  yet.  The  Keeper  wants  the  investigators  to 
recognize the skulking cultist and be led to the house. 
Treating  this  as  an  obvious  clue,  the  Keeper  tells 
Harvey’s  player  that  her  investigator  spots  a  suspi-
cious-looking  man  heading  down  a  back  alley.  To 
everyone’s surprise, the player shouts out, “Stop that 
man!” and Harvey sprints off in pursuit before any of 
his fellow investigators can stop him. 

Obscured Clues

Finding an obscured clue may help the investigators in some 

way,  but  is  not  pivotal  to  progressing  the  plot.  If  you  feel 

that either option, getting the clue or not getting the clue, 

would allow the game to proceed in an interesting direction, 

you can use an obscured clue. When the players request a 

perception roll, you should generally use an obscured clue.

Obscured clues serve two functions:

i The chance to gain useful information.

i To create tension when the players miss the roll and 

know they have missed a clue. 

202 

Call of CthulhuResolving a Perception Roll For an 
Obscured Clue
Each  investigator  that  could  potentially  perceive  the  clue 
should  make  a  perception  roll  (Spot  Hidden,  Psychology, 
Listen,  or  a  combination  thereof).  Decide  on  a  difficulty 
level and declare it before the players roll. The information 
is given to the player with the highest level of success that 
meets or exceeds the difficulty level. In the case of a tie, the 
clue is perceived simultaneously by multiple investigators or 
by the investigator with the highest skill (Keeper’s choice).

Obscured perception rolls, when lost, have a second func-
tion—to provide a clear sign to the players that the investiga-
tors have missed a clue. Note that there is a dissonance here 
between  player  knowledge  and  investigator  knowledge.  The 
players know for certain there is a clue that has been missed, 
but the investigators should be unaware of anything they failed 
to  perceive.  The  players  now  have  three  options,  and  which 
they choose is a matter of personal preference and style of play:

Ignore it: Play strictly within the bounds of the investiga-
tor’s knowledge.

Push it: Have an investigator act on a hunch and take action 
that justifies a pushed perception roll, actively using percep-
tion skills in an attempt to get the clue.

Act on it: The player may pre-emptively guess what the clue 
is and act on it, rather than risk the consequences of losing 
a pushed perception roll. Of course they may have leapt to 
the wrong conclusion.

Consequences of Losing a Pushed 
Perception Roll
Regardless  of  who  called  for  the  perception  roll  and  why, 
the player may push the roll if it can be justified through the 
investigator’s actions. Perception rolls may be used in many 
different  situations  and  there  are  many  different  potential 
consequences of losing a pushed roll. 

Here are a few ideas of what may go wrong when losing 

a pushed perception roll:

G  The investigators waste time searching and in that 

time enemies arrive.

G  Evidence of a search is left; items are broken or are 

replaced out of order.

G  A foe creeps up to ambush the investigator while he 

or she is searching.

G  The  investigator  causes  offense  or  suspicion  by 

studying the target too closely.

G  That thing you were listening for? It heard you and 

it is coming!

The investigators have followed a cultist into  an  old 
house.  The  Keeper  decides  the  cultist  has 