 12 shots in total). Harvey and Cecil dive for cover, but Rodger pulls a pistol and stands 
his ground. Harvey makes a Dodge roll, but Cecil fails. The Keeper rules that the investigators are each 3 meters apart; 
the gangster wastes 6 extra rounds moving between his three targets (his ammunition is reduced by a total of 18 shots 
this round).

The  gangster  has  a  Submachine  Gun  skill  of  40%. The  targets  are  within  normal  range,  so  the  difficulty  level  is 
Regular. The gangster has a penalty die when shooting at Harvey because he successfully dived for cover (see Diving for 
Cover, page 113). Continued...

A firefight breaks out in the warehouse between a gangster and the investigators.

117 

chapter 6: combatThe Keeper rolls 33 or 43 (with the penalty die for diving for cover) to hit Harvey—a miss.
 Switching to the second target, the Keeper rolls 04 or 04 (with one penalty die for it being the gangster’s second attack 
roll this round) to hit Cecil—an Extreme success, indicating that all the shots hit and that half of them impaled. The 
Keeper makes two rolls of 1D10+2 plus two rolls of 12+1D10+2, totaling 45 points of damage. Cecil is killed outright.

The Keeper rolls the gangster’s third attack with two penalty dice and misses Rodger. 

Harvey’s action:

Harvey dived for cover and so forfeits his next action, which means that there is nothing he can do at present. Harvey 

has taken cover behind a car.
Rodger’s action:

Rodger lets off a shot but misses the gangster.

Round two:

The gangster still has his submachine gun pointing in the investigators’ direction, but Rodger now has a readied pistol 
(DEX 70+50), which means Rodger acts first, followed by the gangster, and then Harvey, still behind the cover of the 
nearby car.
Rodger’s action:

Rodger fires a single shot but misses.

The gangster’s action:

The gangster fires 16 shots at the two investigators (4 volleys, 8 bullets at each investigator). The targets are within 
base range, so the difficulty level is Regular. Harvey remains behind the car, giving him partial cover, so the gangster will 
get an additional penalty die on his attacks on Harvey. Rodger dives for cover and fails. The Keeper rules that the two in-
vestigators are now 10 meters apart; the gangster will waste 10 extra rounds moving between his targets (his ammunition 
is reduced by a total of 26 shots this round, leaving 6 shots in his 50-round drum).

The Keeper rolls 87 to hit Rodger with his first volley of 4 bullets: a miss. He then makes a second attack roll for the 

second volley of 4 bullets, taking one penalty die. He rolls 92 and 72: another miss. 

The gangster then switches targets to Harvey and makes a third attack roll. This time he should have three penalty 
dice, two for making a third attack roll and one for Harvey having partial cover. As the number of penalty dice is capped 
at two, he rolls two penalty dice and the difficulty level for the attack is raised by one step to Hard. He rolls 02, 12 and 
12. 12 is a Hard success, so half the four bullets hit. The Keeper rolls 1D10 + 2  for each hit, giving a total of 6 points of 
damage. The Keeper narrates this, stating that two bullets skim the hood of the car and strike Harvey in the shoulder. 

On his final volley of 4 shots at Harvey, the gangster would gain another penalty die, but as he is already on two 
penalty dice the difficulty level is raised once more to Extreme. This time the Keeper rolls 08, 38 and 98. 98 is both a fumble 
and a malfunction (see Malfunctions, below). The Keeper describes it as a malfunction—the gun jams.
Harvey’s action:

Harvey breaks cover, runs in and punches the gangster. The gangster dodges