 night shoots at one of the wandering servants of 
Gla'aki.

Servants  of  Gla'aki:  During  the  night,  the  servants  of 
Gla'aki raid the hideout where Jane Strong is held, Christo-
pher Dobbs, who is holding her, is killed in the confronta-
tion. They take her to their camp and put her with the other 
prisoners.

Artists:  Most  are  now  captive  or  dead;  however,  one  has 
managed to flee and finally collapses from blood loss, dying 
not far from wherever the investigators have camped for the 
night.

Day 2: Sunday, June 21st 1925

Kidnappers: Sidney Harris reaches the hideout in the late 
afternoon to find the girl gone. He beds down there, with 
the plan of setting off the next morning for the Canadian 
border. That night the servants of Gla'aki assault the hide-
out; however Harris uses his gun to keep them at bay.

Servants  of  Gla'aki:  Conduct  the  largest  blast  (which  the 
investigators  will  witness  from  afar),  which  finally  frees 
the crystal shard. They will begin lifting it tomorrow. The 
servants go back to the hideout to collect Harris.

The artists: The servants of Gla'aki take the five artists down 
to the edge of the lake to be converted (Jane Strong and two 
other captives are held at the dig site).

Day 3: Monday, June 22nd 1925

The artists: Down by the lakeside, slowly being converted 
into servants of Gla'aki.

Kidnappers:  Now  insane,  Harris  has  barricaded  himself 
into his cabin. He remains there until the investigators find 
him.

Servants of Gla'aki: The newer servants are working at the 
dig-site.

Investigators:  This  is  where  the  investigators  are  most 
likely to alter the course of events. If undead workers are not 
stopped,  the  crystal  is  pulled  out  of  the  pit  just  after  sun-
down and taken to the lake. The newly converted prisoners 
are untied and return to the dig-site to collect the remaining 
prisoners for conversion.

The Thing in the lake: If the crystal is delivered to the lake, 
the Great Old One has achieved its goal in the forest.

348 

Call of CthulhuInvestigator Motivations
When  running  Amidst  the  Ancient  Trees  as  a  standalone 
adventure  it  is  recommended  that  the  investigators  have 
motivations to join the posse formed to track down Harris. 
These  motivations  work  best  when  tied  into  the  scenario 
background, but could be more generic. 

Presented below are some optional investigator motiva-
tions,  which  can  either  be  handed-out  randomly  during 
investigator creation, or discussed with the players, allowing 
them to shape the motivations more closely with their char-
acter  concepts.  The  players  may  be  encouraged  to  follow 
their motivations, with a promise of a Sanity point reward 
at the end of the scenario if all goes well.

These  motivations  are  purely  optional.  Players  should 
not  feel  obliged  to  use  them  if  they  don’t  believe  they  fit 
their character concepts.

Suggested Investigator Motivations:
One
You’ve gotten yourself into a dire financial situation. Debts 
to the bank, the mortgage company, and so on. In your des-
peration you turned to a loan shark. You have until the end 
of the week to get the cash or the loan shark will start break-
ing bones. All you need is $1000 and you’re in the clear…

Keeper  note:  Mr.  Strong,  funding  the  posse  with  his 
own money, is offering $25 per day for everyone involved. 
It won’t take many days to find Harris