 case 
from him. Harvey seizes the opportunity to push the 
cultist in front of the train, using the briefcase.

This action will require a successful fighting ma-
neuver. The Keeper loves the idea and grants Harvey a 
bonus die for his clever manipulation of the situation. 
The cultist tries to take the bag, and the Keeper decides 
that his goal is to spin Harvey round and throw him 
before the train! Both sides are making a fighting ma-
neuver. Harvey will take one penalty die because his 
Build is 1 point lower than the cultist’s. This cancels 
out the bonus die awarded by the Keeper.

08 is rolled for Harvey’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a 
Hard  success.  23  is  rolled  for  the  cultist’s  Fighting 
(Brawl) skill—a Regular success.

Harvey  keeps  hold  of  the  case  and  pushes  the 
cultist in front of the train; the Keeper doesn’t bother 
rolling for damage!

Armor Examples:

Heavy leather jacket

WWI helmet

1" Hardwood

Present U.S. Helmet

Heavy Kevlar Vest

Military Body Armor

1.5" bulletproof glass

1" Steel plate

Large sand bag

1 point

2 points

3 points

5 points

8 points

12 points

15 points

19 points

20 points

Harvey  goes  on  vacation  to  Innsmouth  and  en-
counters a deep one while exploring the caves under 
Darke’s Travelling Circus of Earthly Delights. A man 
of action, Harvey successfully clubs the deep one for 5 
points of damage. The deep one has tough, leathery 
skin  and  scales,  giving  it  1  point  of  natural  armor. 
The Keeper deducts 1 from the damage, thus Harvey’s 
strike only does a total of 4 damage.

The deep one is none too happy and advances on 
Harvey, its needle sharp teeth glinting in the beam of 
Harvey’s flashlight…

Firearms

It is true that I have sent six bullets through the head of my 
best friend, and yet I hope to show by this statement that I am 
not his murderer.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Thing on the Doorstep

To resolve a firearms attack, make a 1D100 roll and compare 
the result with the attacker’s Firearms skill (using the appro-
priate specialization).

The firearms roll is not opposed. The difficulty level is 
determined by the range, with various other factors granting 
either penalty or bonus dice. A failure never deals damage. 

Firearms and the DEX Order
It  takes  less  time  to  pull  a  trigger  than  to  swing  a  club  or 
sword, therefore readied firearms may shoot at DEX + 50 in 
the DEX order.

Range and Firearms  
Difficulty Levels
The  difficulty  level  of  a  firearms  skill  roll  is  always  set  ac-
cording to range. Each doubling of range above the weap-
on’s  listed  base  range  on  the Weapons  Chart  increases  the 
difficulty level by one step. 

T  Within the base range: Regular difficulty level.
T  Long  range  (up  to  twice  the  base  range):  Hard 

difficulty level.

T  Very long range (up to four times the base range): 

Extreme difficulty level.

Any further modifiers use bonus or penalty dice.
At very long range, when only an Extreme success will 
hit  the  target,  an  impale  only  occurs  with  a  critical  hit  (a 
roll of 01).

112 

Call of CthulhuFirearm Attack Modifiers
Once the difficulty level of a firearms attack has been set, all other 
factors that lend a distinct advantage or disadvantage are taken 
into account. Some options follow, but others may occur to you 
during play. Modifiers grant either a bonus die or a penalty die.

Diving for Cover (Penalty die)
A target that is aware of being fired upon may react by diving 
