 on a floor or a peculiar arrangement of stones in a field. 

Using the Gate costs a number of magic points equal to 
one-fifth of the POW originally used to make the Gate. Each 
trip through a Gate costs 1 Sanity point. Should the user lack 
enough magic points for a trip, the traveler expends hit points 
to make up the cost. Return trips through a Gate always cost 
the same as the initial journey.

Ordinarily, anyone or anything can move through a Gate, 
though some have been built so that a certain key—a word or 
gesture—is needed to activate the portal. Certain versions of 
the spell are known that also ‘change’ those who pass through, 
to aid survival on an alien world. There are also hints that some 
Gates are capable of more than one destination.

Find Gate

Cost: 1 magic point; 1D3 Sanity points
Casting time: 20-60 minutes

Through  a  series  of  gestures  and  a  specific  chant,  the  spell 
reveals to the caster any Gate if it is within the caster’s direct 
vision. 

While this spell locates a Gate, it does not empower any-
one to open, close, create, or pass through it. Neither does 
this  limited  form  of  the  spell  allow  the  caster  to  determine 
whether the Gate traverses time or distance.

Gate Boxes

Cost: 1 POW; variable magic points and Sanity points
Casting time: 5 hours

Allows the creation of twin magical boxes that form two ends 
of  a  magical  Gate.  Going  through  a  gate  box  costs  exactly 
the same magic points and Sanity points as going through a 
normal Gate and the transit procedure is the same.

First,  two  identical  wooden  boxes  must  be  made  to  any 
desired SIZ. The boxes should be open only at one end. Then 
the  necessary  ritual,  consisting  of  placing  one’s  hands  on  the 
boxes and conceiving certain hyper-dimensional lines and angles 
in one’s mind for about five hours must be performed. 5 POW 
is sacrificed at this time. Then the boxes automatically drain half 
the  creator’s  Magic  points  each  day,  until  they  have  absorbed 
magic points equal to their total SIZ x 20. 1 Sanity point is lost for 
every full week of magic point drain. Once the necessary magic 
points have been taken, the boxes become operative.

Time Gate

Cost: variable POW
Casting time: one hour per POW spent

Deeper Version
The  caster  may  elect  to  prepare  a  Gate  for  travel  by 
expending  the  necessary  magic  points  before  the 
journey. The Gate is thus primed and the next person 
stepping through the doorway is not required to pay 
the magic point cost, but will still need to sacrifice 1 
Sanity point.

Deeper Version
The  wizard  is,  through  the  use  of  diabolical  symbols 
and chants, able to create multi-pathway Time Gates—
thus one door may lead to more than one distant time 
or future. Only the caster knows which path leads to 
which time on entering the Gate. Those foolish enough 
to use the Gate unassisted by the caster will be unable 
to determine the correct path and could arrive at any 
of the times the Gate is keyed to (roll randomly). The 
process of creation remains the same.

256 

Call of Cthulhu 
Creates  a  gate  to  the  future  or  to 
the  past.  The  spell  resembles  the 
Create Gate spell but costs POW for 
the number of years travelled rather 
than the number of miles journeyed. 
Use the Gate Creation and Travel 
Costs Table and substitute distance 
in years for distance in miles. 

The  spell  only  yields  a  time 
approximate to that desired, though 
once such a Gate is created the exact 
interval between “now” and “then” 
remains the same