 the character he or 
she is chasing; or, if both are of the same MOV speed, the 
chase might never end, with one character staying just out 
of range of the other. Either way, this leads to a bland chase 
scene based purely upon numbers. 

134 

Call of Cthulhu 
Skills and Hazards
The  Keeper  will  specify  a  skill  or  choice  of  skills  that  can 
be used to negotiate a hazard, along with a difficulty level. 
The  Keeper  should  welcome  suggestions  from  players  for 
alternative ways in which their investigators might negotiate 
obstacles, and, as always, the Keeper is final arbiter of what 
skill is acceptable. Some examples of appropriate skills are:
G  Climb skill to get over fences and walls, or to climb 

down from a high window.
G  Swim skill to cross a river or lake.
G  Dodge skill to weave through a crowd or avoid fall-

ing over trashcans in a narrow alley.

G  STR to wade through thick mud.
G  DEX to run along the top of a wall without falling 

off.

G  Drive Auto is the appropriate skill in a car chase.
This  list  is  not  exhaustive;  other  skills  may  be  used  if 

judged appropriate.  

As  Harvey  flees  the  angry  farmer,  he  sees  that  the 
section of track ahead is rough and muddy. 
Harvey’s turn:

Harvey charges towards the muddy patch, taking 
big strides; certainly a reckless action! The Keeper asks 
for a DEX roll, which Harvey makes. Harvey moves 
onto the next location, having used his one movement 
action for this round. 
Farmer’s turn:

The farmer has 2 movement actions and reaches 
the same rough muddy hazard. However, the farmer’s 
DEX  roll  is  failed  and  he  slips  and  falls.  Referring 
to  Table  III:  Other  Forms  of  Damage,  the  Keeper 
chooses Moderate Injury, inflicting 2 (from a roll of 
1D6) points of damage. In addition, the farmer must 
pay 1 (1D3) additional movement action. He has al-
ready used all of his movement actions for this round, 
so the delay will cost one of his two movement actions 
in the next round.

Hazards:

Start of 
Round:

End of 
Round:

mud

FarmerHarvey

Harvey
Farmer

Caught trying to flee out the window.

Hazards add spice to a chase scene: hairpin bends, slip-
pery  steps,  thorny  bushes,  thick  mud,  and  so  on.  Hazards 
typically  slow  characters  and  vehicles  down,  and  if  badly 
handled, can also cause harm. 

The  Keeper  should  present  the  hazard  and  allow  each 
character  to  decide  how  they  deal  with  it.  Skill  is  always 
factor, and sometimes taking a cautious approach, slowing 
down in order to make a more considered attempt, can help. 
Other times, a reckless approach might be taken to use brute 
force and speed, such as when breaking down a locked door 
or taking corners at speed. 

If a character elects to take a cautious approach, move-
ment actions may be spent to gain bonus dice on the skill 
roll to negotiate a hazard. 1 movement action buys 1 bonus 
die,  or  2  movement  actions  buys  2  bonus  dice  (2  bonus 
dice is the maximum that can be rolled). If the skill roll is 
successful the character or vehicle is not further delayed or 
damaged by the hazard and is free to move on.

If the skill roll to negotiate a hazard is failed, the Keeper 
should  decide  if  damage  is  inflicted  on  the  character  or 
vehicle,  and  how  much,  using  Table  III:  Other  Forms  of 
Damage as a guide for damage to characters, or Table VI