 character 
can spend up to his or her Spending Level on any given day.

It is likely that money will only occasionally become an 
issue in play, when large amounts are being spent. This may 
include  preparing  for  a  major  trip,  purchasing  expensive 
items such as a vehicle or rare book, or hiring extra staff.

The combination of being allowed to spend freely within 
the bounds of their living standard and the freedom of not 
being required to record expenditure below a certain spend-
ing level is intended to minimize bookkeeping. The use of 
this system may to lead to areas of uncertainty as to exactly 
what is within the bounds of an individual’s living standard 
and  whether  an  investigator  has  exceeded  their  spending 
level. As always, the Keeper is the arbiter of such matters and 
is advised to intervene only when an investigator has clearly 
exceeded their spending level.  

Harvey begins the game with a Credit Rating of 41 
(Average).  This  affords  him  an  average  living  stan-
dard;  he  may  stay  in  moderately  priced  hotels,  eat 
out  (economically)  and  take  the  occasional  taxi.  In 
addition, he may spend up to $10 per day. None of 
this requires any bookkeeping on the player’s part.

Harvey spends a couple of sessions of play carrying 
out investigations in Boston, travelling around by bus 
and taxi, visiting libraries, interviewing people, and 
all  the  usual  things  a  Call  of  Cthulhu  investigator 
might get up to. This is all within his living standard 
and spending limit. No bookkeeping is required.

Spending Beyond One’s Spending 
Limit
When  an  investigator  spends  an  amount  beyond  their 
spending limit, the player must reduce their cash by the full 
amount  spent.  If  cash  is  insufficient,  the  investigator  may 
seek to use their assets. Converting assets into cash can take 
time; how long is up to the Keeper. Mortgaging a property, 
selling antiques, gaining loans, and so on all take time. If the 
investigator  is  away  from  their  hometown,  this  is  likely  to 
take even longer.

If  multiple  purchases  of  less  than  the  investigator’s 
spending threshold are made on the same day, the Keeper 
may insist on combining the total purchases for comparison 
with  the  investigator’s  spending  level,  and  demand  that  a 
cash spend is deducted if the spending limit is exceeded.

95 

chapter 5: game systemHarvey wants to buy a 12-gauge shotgun, costing $40. 
This  being  above  his  $10  spending  limit,  he  reduces 
his cash by $40 (from $82 to $42).

Later,  Harvey  wishes  to  take  a  trip  to  England, 
choosing to travel by sea, first class, costing $120.  This 
is beyond Harvey’s available cash. Harvey has $1665 
tied  up  in  assets,  and  seeks  to  realize  some  of  that 
capital by getting a loan from the bank. The Keeper 
agrees to this and decides that it might take a week to 
get the money. Harvey transfers $245 from his assets 
to his cash. From the $245, he spends $120 on the tick-
et, leaving $125, which he adds to his remaining cash 
of  $42.  His  cash  is  now  $167,  and  his  assets  $1400. 
When  he  gets  to  England,  his  finances  will  function 
just as they did back home (average living standards 
and a $10 per day spending limit).

Spending 
Money in Call 
of Cthulhu
If your characters travel 
to a place with a lower 
cost of living then they 
should find their money 
buys more. For example, if 
Harvey journeyed to rural 
India