 but  the 
following works are the heart of the Mythos and will make 
a good start:

T  The Lurking Fear
T  The Horror at Red Hook
T  The Colour Out of Space
T  The Dunwich Horror
T  The Shadow Over Innsmouth
T  The Dreams in the Witch-House
T  The Haunter of the Dark
T  The Shunned House
T  The Call of Cthulhu 
T  The Case of Charles Dexter Ward
T  The Whisperer in Darkness
T  At the Mountains of Madness
T  The Shadow Out of Time
A  Keeper  who  reads  at  least  half  of  the  above  works, 
which  are  mostly  novelettes,  will  be  in  good  shape  to  run 
this game. Potential players of the game are encouraged to 
read at least one story before trying to investigate any of the 
mysteries of the Mythos.

What You Need to Play
When you are ready to begin playing Call of Cthulhu, you 
only need a few things to start: 

G  This rulebook.
G  Roleplaying dice.
G  Paper.
G  Pencils and an eraser.
G  Two or more people to game with.
G  A  quiet  place  (the  kitchen  table  is  a  good  place  to 

start).

G  Three or four hours in which to play the game.

Roleplaying Dice
As  mentioned,  to  play  this  game  the  Keeper  and  players 
will  need  a  set  of  roleplaying  dice,  including  percentile 
dice (D100), a four-sided die (D4), a six-sided die (D6), an 
eight-sided die (D8), and a twenty-sided die (D20). Ideally, 
to  keep  things  moving  along,  players  and  Keeper  should 
each have their own set of dice. 

People new to roleplaying may never have seen dice with 
more than six sides. A variety of them can be found at most 
hobby  game  stores  and  online—probably  including  the 
place where you bought this book.

The  letter  D  stands  for  the  word  “die”  or  “dice”.  The 
number after the D stands for the range of random numbers 
sought: D8 generates the random numbers 1 through 8, for 
instance, while D100 generates the numbers 1–100. 

The dice are used to indicate how many hit points were 
lost to an attack, to generate investigators, to determine san-
ity loss, etc. 

Reading the D100 (Percentile Dice)

Percentile  dice  (to  which  the  abbreviation  D100  refers) 
usually consist of two 10-sided dice rolled at the same time. 
These dice are sold as a pair, one (units die) being numbered 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0, the other (tens die) being numbered 
10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 00. When rolled, read the top 
numbers on the dice to get the result. The single digit is the 
units, the double digit the tens, and you should read them 
together. A roll of 00 on the tens die combined with a 0 on 
the units die indicates a result of 100. A roll of 00 on the tens 
die combined with any other roll on the units die indicates a 
roll of under 10; for example, a roll of 00 on the tens die and 
3 on the units die being read as 3%.

Alternatively  use  two  “units”  dice  of  different  colors, 
each numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0. Read the die of one 
color  consistently  as  the  tens-digit 