-go, Moon-Beasts, Serpent People, Insects from 
Shaggai, Shoggoths, Star Vampires, and Beings from Xicotl.

343 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsAmidst the  
Ancient Trees

he daughter of a local industrialist has been kidnapped. The ransom payoff went horribly wrong, ending in a 
gunfight on the edge of the Green Mountain National Forest. The kidnappers have escaped the scene with both 
the girl and the ransom money, and fled back into the forest. 

The investigators must rescue the girl, hunt the criminals down, and bring them to justice. However, there’s 

more to be discovered in the forest than anyone ever guessed…

Introduction

Amidst the Ancient Trees takes place in the summer of 1925 in 
Southwest Vermont, though Keepers may relocate the adven-
ture’s setting and change the period to suit their gaming group. 
The  investigators  are  in  Bennington,  Vermont  and 
sign-up  to  join  the  search  party  for  the  criminals  and  the 
kidnapped girl. The scenario assumes that players will cre-
ate investigators specifically for this adventure and includes 
suggestions  for  getting  the  investigators  involved.  If  the 
adventure is to be run as part of an ongoing campaign, the 
investigators are free to bring their own reasons for signing 
up for the search party. 

This scenario emphasizes action over investigation. How-
ever, there are opportunities for investigations to take place 
at the beginning of the adventure. The Keeper may wish to 
make the players aware of this beforehand if creating charac-
ters solely for this scenario, to prevent selecting skill sets that 
will see little use. The most useful skills will be Tracking, Spot 
Hidden, Listen, Stealth, Fighting, and Firearms.

While the period would suggest that male investigators 
would join the search posse, there is no reason why female 
characters cannot do so. 

The Keeper is advised to read the descriptions of both 
Gla'aki and the servants of Gla'aki in Chapter 14: Monsters, 
Beasts and Alien Gods. 

Background
Millennia  ago,  the  Great  Old  One  known  as  Gla'aki  came 
to the Earth in a crystal prison upon a meteor. Caught by 
Earth’s gravitational field, the meteor was pulled off course 
and broke apart as it sped further towards Earth. Shards of 

the meteor and the crystal prison landed across the globe. 
One of the lesser splinters came to rest in North America. 
Though scattered, the crystal prison still has power over the 
Great Old One. Gla'aki is confined to this planet as long as 
the prison’s power remains intact. 

Over the ensuing millennia, Gla'aki has been seeking out 
these  shards  and  projecting  itself  to  other  bodies  of  water 
near where the shards of crystal have fallen. From these des-
olate places it sends out its Dream Call to lure inhabitants of 
the surrounding lands to it and, exerting itself, it manifests 
there for a brief time to convert them into undead servants. 
These  servants  are  used  to  cement  the  hold  of  Gla'aki  in 
these territories and ultimately find the shards of the crystal 
prison nearby. Once found and brought to the lake, Gla'aki 
can destroy the power within the shards. With every piece of 
the crystal it destroys, the weaker the prison becomes. One 
day Gla'aki will be able to finally escape the prison and travel 
unrestrained once more. 

In 1865, Joseph Turner and his gang of friends were con-
scripted into the Union Army. Terrified of meeting their end 
on the battlefield, the gang decided to desert and flee north 
to the Canadian border and wait out the war.

Turner and his gang fled into what would later become 
the  Green  Mountain  National  Forest,  where  they  could 
hide from the authorities on their trek north. Here, north 
of the small village of Somerset, Vermont, they encountered 
something far more