 
physiology, being more akin to a form of fungus. They com-
municate  with  each  other  by  changing  the  colors  of  their 
brain-like heads; however, they can speak human tongues in 
buzzing, insect-like voices. 

Unable to eat terrene food, the mi-go must import theirs 
from other worlds. They are able to fly through the interstel-
lar aether on their great wings, though Earth’s atmosphere 
makes their flying maneuverability clumsy at best. 

Some  speculate  that  the  mi-go  are  pan-dimensional 
beings, as their bodies seem to resonate at unusual frequen-
cies; this becomes most apparent when trying to capture the 
creatures on film, as ordinary photographic plates will not 
take an image of these beings. Possibly, modern high-defi-
nition digital video or first-rate chemistry could devise an 
emulsion that might work, however no one having achieved 
such success has ever come forward. 

When injured, the beings seem able to either regrow or 
attach new limbs as needed. After death, a mi-go dissolves 
into a pool of translucent goo within a few hours. This goo 
quickly dries out, leaving only an oily stain.

The  mi-go  worship  both  Nyarlathotep  and  Shub-Nig-
gurath,  and  possibly  others.  They  hire  or  compel  human 
agents to simplify and front their operations on Earth and, 
consequently, are sometimes connected to cults. Occasional 
sightings  in  remote  places  have  become  the  source  of  the 
Abominable  Snowman  stories  told  in  the  Himalayas,  as 
well as perhaps the truth behind supposed encounters with 
aliens or flying saucers. 

Mi-go  are  inquisitive  scientists,  capable  of  astounding 
surgical feats, including the placing of living human brains 
in life-sustaining metal tubes. They can then attach speaking, 
listening, and seeing devices to the tubes, so that the brains 
can interact with those around them. Such contained brains 
may then be carried around and taken into the vacuum and 
cold  of  space,  allowing  their  favored  human  servants  the 
opportunity to visit distant stars and other mi-go outposts. 

SPECIAL POWERS

Hypnosis:  By  introducing  ultra-high  and  ultra-low  fre-
quency  tones  into  its  buzzing,  the  mi-go  can  put  one  or 
many humans listening to it into a trance state. Those with-
in forty-feet of a buzzing mi-go must succeed in an opposed 
POW roll or become incapable of action. Mi-go can speak 

Mi-Go

telepathically to humans, which costs 1 magic  point per 5 
rounds. The human can resist the communication with an 
opposed POW roll.

Void  Light:  Creates  a  sink  from  which  photons  will  not 
emerge.  The  mi-go  must  spend  1  magic  point  for  every 
cubic  yard  of  blackness  desired.  No  light  can  escape  the 
affected  area,  making  a  useful  visual  protection  for  these 
fragile aliens. The darkness may be like a sheet or a spherical 
volume.

Spells: Mi-go have a 25% chance of knowing 1D3 spells.

averages 
50  
50 
50 
70  
65  
65 

rolls
(3D6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)
(4D6 ×5)
(2D6+6 ×5)
(2D6+6 ×5)

MI-GO, Enigmatic scientists from Yuggoth
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
HP: 10
Average Damage Bonus: none.
Average Build: 0
Average Magic Points: 13
Move: 7 / 13 flying

ATTACKS 
Attacks per