 a number of (incriminating) files are missing, presum-
ably burnt in the fireplace (or perhaps taken by Roach).

The Keeper may wish to plant other clues here, such as 
a matchbook for Hibb’s Roadhouse (perhaps written on by 
Lucy  Stone),  a  piece  of  art  by  Cecil  Hunter,  or  perhaps  a 
casino poker chip (fallen down the back of the desk).

Hibb’s Roadhouse
A  raucous  but  reasonably  upmarket  establishment  on  the 
edge  of Arkham,  catering  to  the  illicit  drinking  needs  of  the 
university town. The establishment is split in two: a soft juice 
and coffee bar (acting as the front for the speakeasy), and a back 
room where illegal liquor is served. Here can be found Lucy 
Stone and potentially the Atlantic City hoods or those that will 
happily take their money to rat out the investigators to them.

The Hobbhouse Manse
The  Hobbhouse  Manse  is  a  ramshackle  late-colonial 
three-story  house  set  in  overgrown  grounds,  lonely  and 
desolate, about a half-hour’s drive from Arkham proper. 

377 

chapter 15: scenariosThe  manse  represents  a  continuum  with 
Arkham’s  dark  past  within  this  scenario  and 
may provide an atmospheric side-journey for 
the investigators, and an avenue by which the 
Keeper can further stoke tension and a sense 
of brooding malice behind unfolding events. 
It  is  a  mournful  and  now  emptied  house, 
shrouded  in  dust  and  utterly  hollow  with  ab-
sence, and its approach is a singularly brooding 
and  desolate  stretch  of  countryside  woodland 
that serves to isolate it from the town of Arkham. 
Investigators who take time to search around the 
Manse are likely to witness one or more of the 
Horror’s manifestations—see Signs of Passage.
Details  of  the  Manse  have  been  left  rela-
tively  sparse,  allowing  Keepers  to  develop  its 
secrets and contents at their discretion, possi-
bly providing hooks to later scenarios. 

Unconsidered Trifles
Abner Wick’s shop is a respectable and estab-
lished  antiques  business,  not  large  but  well 
regarded in the local trade—Wick insures that 
any  goods  of  traceably  dubious  origin  never 
see the front of store. 

There  is  an  office  on  the  floor  above  the 
shop, while at the rear of the store is storeroom 
and loading yard. In the storeroom is a door 
that leads down into a copious basement filled 
with packing cases and a rackety old boiler. 

A successful Spot Hidden roll in the base-
ment will reveal a partially concealed trapdoor 
that  leads  down  to  a  maze-like  subbasement 
filled  with  old  packing  cases,  chests,  busted 
coffins, and bones—lots of bones, mostly hu-
man. Some of the bones have been fashioned 
into torches, chairs, desks, and similar maca-
bre paraphernalia. At the center and far below 
street level is a chamber, the center of which is a brick-lined 
well  that  drops  away  to  darkness,  where  the  ghouls  dwell. 
Here  is  a  charnel  shrine  and  the  effects  of  the  occult  and 
dark lore (if Wick possesses the Witch Trial Papers, they will 
be found here). 

The  subbasements  of  the  antiques  shop  are  a  death 
trap—at least one and possibly more of Wick’s servants are 
in  residence  down  here  at  any  time  and  any  alarm  or  the 
sound