 the artifact is 
unlikely to vanish from play once introduced; it will alter the 
abilities (for good or ill) of the investigators. Make sure you 
are certain of what it does, what it costs and its implications 
for your game.

Enchant Knife
Cost: variable POW; 1D4 Sanity points
Casting time: 2 hours

An  enchanted  knife  increases  the  success  chance  for  other 
spells. The spell enchants a knife or dagger made of a pure 
metal, such as gold or iron. With the knife blade an intricate 
diagram is drawn on a flat surface and then the blade is used 
to kill an animal of at least SIZ 20. The creature’s blood is 
then traced out to follow the lines of the drawn diagram and 
the enchantment is complete.

Such  a  knife  is  suitable  for  use  in  casting  Summon 
Dimensional Shambler. Every point of POW placed into it 
adds  1  percentile  to  the  chance  for  success  in  casting  that 
spell.  If  this  knife  is  used  to  slay  the  small  animal  for  En-
chant Brazier, the brazier so made adds 10 percentiles to the 
chance for successfully casting Conjure Glass of Mortlan.

Enchant Pipes
Cost: variable magic points; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: 3+ hours

Augments the chance for success in casting particular spells. 
The spell enchants a set of panpipes or a flute. The instru-
ment  must  be  at  least  90%  metal.  An  hour-long  ritual  of 
concentration and incantation must be performed over the 
musical  instrument,  during  which  Sanity  points  are  sacri-
ficed  by  the  caster,  who  must  also  sacrifice  POW  into  the 
instrument. For each lot of 5 POW sacrificed, the musical 
instrument must steep in fresh, warm blood for two hours. 
A new animal, of at least cat or rabbit size, must be slaugh-
tered for each 5 POW. For each point of POW it contains, 
the  finished  instrument  adds  2  percentiles  to  the  success 
chance  of  Summon/Bind  Servitor  of  the  Outer  Gods  and 
other spells requiring the use of pipes or flutes to cast.

Enchant Sacrificial Dagger
Cost: 30 POW
Casting time: 1 week

The  caster  creates  a  flame-shaped  dagger  over  which  this 
spell is performed. The dagger must then be used to kill a 
living being of at least 100 POW. Simultaneously, 30 points 

Continued on page 258

255 

chapter 12: grimoire 
 
 
 
 
Gate Spells

The idea of a panel that would open on some remote 
world impressed Eibon as being rather fantastic, not to say 
farfetched.

           —Clark Ashton Smith, The Door to Saturn.

Cost:  variable  POW  see  Table  XIII:  Gate  Creation  and 
Travel Costs
Cost to access a Gate: variable magic points and 1 Sanity 
point
Casting time: one hour per POW spent

Gate spells allow the caster to create doorways between other 
lands  or  times,  dimensions,  or  worlds—allowing  the  user 
to travel great distances with a simple step. Usually a Gate 
connects to a single other location. 

Creation of a Gate requires the permanent expenditure of 
POW, in a sacrifice equal to the log to base 10 of the distance 
the Gate connects in miles times five. A Gate may take many 
forms, common ones being indicated by a pattern of painted 
lines on a floor or a peculiar arrangement of stones in a field. 

Using the Gate costs a number of magic points equal to 
one-fifth of the POW originally used to make the Gate. Each 
trip through a Gate costs 1 Sanity point. Should the user lack 
enough magic points for a trip,