 but  one 
wish shall The Render deliver. 

Eihort
Then came pale movement in the well, and something clam-
bered up from the dark, a bloated blanched oval supported on 
myriad fleshless legs. Eyes formed in the  
gelatinous oval and stared at him.

—Ramsey Campbell, Before the Storm

Eihort is a monstrous being that lives in a labyrinthine net-
work of tunnels deep beneath England’s Severn Valley.

Cult
Eihort’s  only  known  cults  are  in  the  Severn Valley,  partic-
ularly  in  the  cities  of  Brichester  and  Camside.  Typically  a 
group  of  demented  humans  is  led  by  a  group  of  Eihort’s 
Brood, which have formed themselves into the simulacrum 
of a human.

Other Characteristics
Eihort’s  Brood:  small,  globular,  white  grub-like  or  spi-
der-like creatures, easily slain. Their systematic destruction 
risks Eihort’s wrath. After their grisly birth, the Brood hide 
until the Great Old Ones walk the Earth again. Then they 
will  metamorphose  into  smaller  versions  of  Eihort  and 
thereafter attend him. Brood are not intelligent or aggres-
sive, however they can gnaw motionless targets to the bone. 
In  1D10  minutes  a  group  can  do  1  hit  point  damage  to  a 
defenseless target.

Eihort’s Bargain: Cornering a human victim, Eihort ques-
tions the captive and if the captive refuses Eihort, it smashes 
him or her to death.

Whoever  answers  and  accepts  Eihort’s  Bargain  accepts 
the implantation of immature Brood into his or her body. 
Progressively  horrible  and  sanity-wracking  dreams  begin, 
costing 1D4 Sanity points and adding 1D3 Cthulhu Mythos, 
affecting  the  victim  in  the  coming  months.  The  maturing 

Eihort

Brood fight the Bargainer for control of his or her body. Af-
ter 1D100 months, the struggle climaxes as terrifying visions 
wrack  the  Bargainer’s  brain,  and  at  last  the  mature  Brood 
split open the Bargainer’s body and emerge from within and 
scuttle off. The Bargainer always dies.

SIZ 250 

EIHORT, God of the Labyrinth
STR 220 
CON 400 
POW 150  HP 65
Damage Bonus: +5D6
Build: 6
Magic Points: 30
Move: 8/1 Burrowing

DEX 60 

INT 125

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 2 
Fighting attacks: May kick and crush anyone near enough.
Bite: The bite injects a paralytic poison, requiring targets to make 
an Extreme CON roll or become paralyzed for 1D6 hours.

Crush: May crush all targets within a 10-foot area.
Fighting 70% (35/14), half damage bonus 
Bite  70%  (35/14),  half  damage  bonus  +  paralytic  poison  (see 

above)

Crush 85% (42/17), damage equals damage bonus to all in 10-foot 

radius 

Armor:  None.  All  physical  attacks  do  minimum  damage.  Addi-
tionally,  Eihort  regenerates  3  hit  points  per  combat  round. 
Brought to 0 hit points, his remains ooze into the ground and 
he regenerates somewhere far within the earth.

Spells: Cloud Memory, all Contact Deity spells, Create Gate, Sum-

mon/Bind Chthonian, Summon/Bind Ghoul.
Sanity Loss: 1D6/1D20 Sanity points to