  skills  and 
goals; sometimes an investigator may wish to merely subdue 
an  opponent  without  causing  undue  harm,  while  at  other 
times the goal may be to kill, or simply to flee.

Combat has its own rules that focus on the action and 
help to determine who is doing what, when it is done, and 
the degree of success achieved. Rather than having a single 
roll decide the outcome of the fight, a series of rolls are made 
until there is a clear victor.

Declaration of Intent: “What 
is your character doing?”

The Keeper should always ask the player that question and 
encourage  them  to  describe  their  investigator’s  actions 
rather than use game terminology. “I’m rolling to hit,” is not 
something an investigator would ever say or do. Endeavor 
to  paint  a  picture  with  your  descriptions  of  combat  and 
encourage your players to do likewise. When the player has 
described their investigator’s action, the Keeper should then 
tell the player which skill to roll dice against. 

Player: “I’m going to punch the guard, then run for the open door.”
Keeper: “The  guard  is  going  to  try  to  grab  you.  Roll  your 
Brawling skill.”

Keeper: “The  monstrous  humanoid  is  running  straight  at 
you—what are you doing?”
Player: “I raise my shotgun and blast the thing.”
Keeper: “OK, give me a skill roll for Shotgun.”

Keeper: “Scott’s  investigator  is  acting  crazy—he’s  heading 
out  of  the  tent  into  the  freezing  cold  without  his  coat  or 
mittens. He’ll freeze to death out there!”
Player: “I’m going to grab him and wrestle him to the ground.”
Keeper: “Let’s have an opposed Brawling roll.”

Notice  how  the  request  for  a  dice  roll  develops  out  of 
what the players say. In the first example the goal is to get 
past the guard, and the punch is simply a method of achiev-
ing the goal; damage may be inflicted as a consequence, but 
the Keeper uses the dice to judge whether the maneuver is 
accomplished.

In the second example, the player’s goal is clearly to inflict 
maximum damage, so the dice will be used to determine if the 
monster is hit, and to gauge the amount of damage inflicted.
In  the  third  example  the  player  is  trying  to  restrain  a 
fellow investigator without inflicting harm. Again the dice 
will be used to gauge the success of the maneuver. 

The  dice  are  then  rolled,  usually  by  the  Keeper  and  the 
player simultaneously, and the results used to determine what 
maneuvers are achieved and how much damage is inflicted.

How  you  describe  the  outcome  of  the  dice  roll  is  im-
portant  to  your  story,  but  of  no  importance  to  the  game 
mechanics. One Fighting roll which inflicts 6 hit points of 

damage  may  represent  a  few  good  punches,  a  knee  to  the 
groin, a series of kicks or a head-butt—your description of 
the outcome should elaborate upon your stated intention, 
suiting the relative success achieved.

Try to use this format each round: allow each character’s 
actions in the story to suggest what rolls are required, resolve 
the dice rolls, incorporate the outcome of the rolls back into 
the  story,  then  move  onto  the  next  character.  Don’t  just 
repeatedly roll dice without any story. 

The Combat Round
It is confusing for everyone when multiple players act and 
speak  at  once,  so  to  maintain  order,  combat  is  structured 
into rounds, with each player taking one turn in each round. 
A  combat  round  is  a  deliberately  elastic  unit  of  time  in