 51–95: no progress has been made.

If the result is 96–100:  the  character  rebels  against  taking 
the  drugs  or  therapy.  1D6  Sanity  points  are  lost,  and  no 
progress can be made during the next game month.

165 

chapter 8: sanityArrested  after  breaking  into  a  construction  site 
and  attempting  to  steal  dynamite,  Harvey  Walters 
continually babbles about saving the world from the 
Cthulhu cult and the forces of the Mythos, especially 
the  evil  wizard  Carl  Stanford.  The  court  decides  to 
have Harvey assessed by a local psychiatrist. Dr. Shiny 
listens  carefully  during  an  interview  then  decides  to 
make Harvey an involuntary patient. 

Dr. Shiny lists his reasons: (1) Harvey poses a risk 
to others, especially Carl Stanford; (2) Harvey poses 
a danger to himself, having stolen the dynamite and 
blasting caps; and (3) Harvey has a psychiatric disor-
der, in the form of delusions concerning cultists and 
the Cthulhu Mythos. 

While  taking  Harvey’s  history,  Dr.  Shiny  learns 
that recently Harvey has been in five car accidents in-
volving chases, as well as one hit-and-run. Of the last, 
Harvey explains that he had to run over an evil cultist. 
Dr. Shiny therefore also declares Harvey unfit to drive. 
But  he  finds  that  Harvey  is  financially  competent, 
able to explain all his assets and how he earns money, 
and so Harvey retains the right to continue to manage 
his own financial affairs. Nonetheless, Harvey Walters 
is committed to the institute for assessment. 

 A few nights later, Harvey escapes from the insti-
tute and heads toward Arkham. Naturally Dr. Shiny 
wants to protect all involved, so he notifies the police. 
He also calls Carl Stanford regarding the escape. “Yes, 
Mr. Stanford, Harvey may be dangerous...”

another formal presentation to the court, in which an inves-
tigator would have to be found mentally incompetent to act 
on his or her own behalf, or else might voluntarily surrender 
specific legal rights in return for treatment. The soundness 
of  these  proceedings  can  vary  widely;  brusque  pro  forma 
evaluations  are  not  unusual,  and  much  depends  upon  the 
character and dedication of judge, counsel, and examining 
physician or physicians.

If the court decides for mental incompetence then a re-
sponsible guardian is chosen, who thereafter in theory acts 
to benefit the individual. Normally the guardian is a relative 
or someone whom the court has reason to assume will act 
in the individual’s best regard. Lacking other candidates, the 
court appoints itself.

Unless  the  investigator  is  criminally  insane  (in  which 
case  the  court  must  be  the  guardian),  the  guardian  now 
decides what is best for the investigator. This may indeed be 
commitment, but it might also be home care, or a therapeu-
tic sea voyage, etc. Lacking other indication, the court will 
accept any reasonable plan that seems to have the backing 
of medical opinion.

If the guardian commits the investigator to an institu-
tion, the guardian continues to have general authority over 
the  investigator,  assigning  day-to-day  care  and  authority 
with  the  sanitarium  staff.  Thereafter,  the  investigator  has 
three  ways  to  leave:  he  or  she  may  convince  the  guardian 
to remove him or her from the institution; he or she may 
convince the institution’s staff to bring notice of his or her 
restored mental balance before the awarding court and that 
court takes upon itself the guardianship  and grants his or 
her freedom; or he or she can simply climb over the institu-
tion’s wall