6  hit  points  and 
falls unconscious (an Extreme success negates all damage). A 
failure means the target loses 2D6+1 damage.

Mesmerize  sacrifice:  Causes  target  to  go  to  Chaugnar  Faugn  to 
await destruction; however, the target may break the trance by 
making an Extreme POW roll.

Fighting 80% (40/18), damage 1D6 + damage bonus
Bite and hold (mnvr) drain 1D6 hit points each round 
Heart Attack Target must make CON roll, see above
Mesmerize Target must make an Extreme POW roll, see above
Armor: No ordinary weapon or mechanical device does damage; 
defends  against  enchanted  impaling  weapons  with  10  points 
of super-dense hide; resists even the most powerful forces for 
15 minutes before becoming disincarnate. If Chaugnar Faugn 
loses  more  than  90  hit  points,  he  be-
comes  inert  and  lifeless.  Depending 
on the alignment of the stars, he 
requires  months,  decades,  or 
centuries  of  rituals  and 
sacrifices  to  be  restored 
to life.
Spells:  Contact  Chaugnar 
Faugn,  Curse  of  Chaugnar 
Summon/Bind 
Faugn, 
of  Chaugnar 
Brother 
Faugn,  others  as 
the 
Keeper desires.
Sanity  Loss:  Inert,  he 
costs  0/1D6  Sanity  points 
to  see;  animated  and  active, 
he  costs  1D4/2D6+1  Sanity 
points;  seeing  Chaugnar  Faugn’s 
mutated  companion  costs  1/1D6 

Chaugnar Faugn
Sanity points.

…and Mu Sang spoke and he said that the most mighty 
would  rise  and  a  White  Acolyte  would  come  among 
them.  The  White  Acolyte  is  the  chosen  of  Chaugnar 
Faugn and it is through him that the Great One would 
be taken to a new land where food will be plentiful and 
Our Master would feast. The White Acolyte will come 
from  the  West  and  by  this  sign  you  shall  know  him. 
When the great feast begins, it will not end until Our 
Master has devoured upon the very stars in the sky and 
his stomach is full. 

Cthugha
But even though we had shielded our eyes, it was impossible 
not to see the great amorphous shapes streaming skyward 
from this accursed place, nor the equally great being hovering 
like a cloud of living fire above the trees.

—August Derleth, The Dweller in Darkness

Cthugha resembles an enormous burning mass, continually 
varying  in  shape.  It  dwells  at  or  near  the  star  Fomalhaut, 
whence it may be called. It is one of the most obscure and 
remote of all the Great Old Ones.

Cult
No  cult  appears  to  be  connected  with  Cthugha,  though 
scattered fire cults to it have existed in the past, such as the 
church of Melkarth in ancient Rome. It is served by entities 
known as fire vampires. In some books, the fire vampires are 
stated to be ruled by a being known as Fthagghua; perhaps 
this is just another way to spell Cthugha.

Other Characteristics
Cthugha has the telepathic abilities common to the deities, 
but  does  not  seem  to  communicate  with  humans  in  any 
fashion and must be summoned to be dealt with.

SIZ 700 

CTHUGHA, The Living Flame
STR 400 
CON 600 
POW 210  HP 130
Damage Bonus: +13D