 way to lead to the deduc-
tion of its identity or purpose. Sets of clues that add up to a 
baffling monster can make for fascinating play.

207 

chapter 10: playing the gameSometimes, a monster looks the same whether or not it is alive. Use caution when confirming kills.

Remember that nearly all Mythos races, such as mi-go, ser-
pent men, and deep ones, are of human intelligence or higher, 
lead  longer  lives  and  are  more  knowledgeable  of  the  world 
and cosmos around them. Who among these semi-immortals 
would willingly risk death for some momentary victory over 
beings who are to them the equivalent of chimpanzees? Lack-
ing reasons to fight, intelligent creatures retreat before danger. 
Avoid negotiation between investigators and their inhuman 
adversaries—such actions suggest that the monsters operate 
on a human level and diminishes their horror.

Shoggoths and other entities of lesser intelligence should 
be terrifyingly unpredictable and rancorous. Such creatures 
may  well  launch  all-out  attacks  and  can  be  terrible  in 
their  wrath. Here the challenge is physical and the  Keeper 
is  obliged  only  to  give  reasonable  warning  of  impending 
doom.  Attacking  the  shoggoth  who  lives  in  the  cave  can 
be an episodic problem, one that can be returned to until 
the  investigators  can  destroy  it—should  they  survive  long 
enough—seal it in, or somehow banish it elsewhere.

Looking Away Won’t Save You!

And as I watched the ripples that told of the writhing of 
worms beneath, I felt a new chill from afar out whither the 
condor had flown, as if my flesh had caught a horror before 
my eyes had seen it.
—H.P. Lovecraft, What the Moon Brings.

This quote illustrates how we perceive with all of our senses, 
not just our eyes. Given the alien nature of the Mythos, we 
might even perceive its presence through some primal sense 
beyond  the  known  five  that  we  recognize.  Averting  one’s 
eyes  from  the  TV  screen  may  shield  us  from  the  sight  of 
unwanted scenes of horror, but this is rarely enough when 
confronted  with  the  tangible,  unspeakable  presence  of  a 
Mythos monster. 

Winners and Losers
Call of Cthulhu is not a competition between you and the 
players.  The  rules  ensure  that  everyone  is  treated  fairly; 
however,  there  is  no  mechanism  to  enforce  game  balance 
between the Keeper and the players. Balance is derived from 
the decisions that you make as Keeper. You decide what the 

208 

Call of Cthulhuinvestigators encounter, you set the scene, you decide on the 
actions of the non-player characters. 

The odds can easily be stacked against the players. There 
are no rules to limit what you can present the investigators 
with; if you decide that a host of dark young descend on the 
investigators  while  they  are  asleep,  then  there  is  little  that 
the players can do to save their investigators. This would not 
make for a good game nor happy players. You must measure 
the threat and be aware that many of the monsters presented 
in this book are capable of wiping out a party of investiga-
tors. Usually, the best option open to the investigators is to 
flee and live to fight another day.

Fair Warning
Keepers should endeavor to provide players with the chance 
to avoid investigator death wherever possible. This is not to 
say that Keepers should diminish the abilities of monsters 
and villains in the game, or pull their punches when dealing 
out  damage  from  attacks  and  other  injuries.  Rather,  it  is 
recommended that Keepers give players up to three chances 
to avoid certain death.

Failed Sanity Rolls
A  sense  of  self-control