gies for their own benefit. The tales equally speak 
of a terrible, yet unnamed, doom that came to those 
who practiced this inverted form of worship.

Daoloth
Not shapeless, but so complex that the eye could recognise no 
describable shape. There were hemispheres and shining metal, 
coupled by long plastic rods. The rods were of a flat grey 
colour, so that he could not make out which were nearer; they 
merged into a flat mass from which protruded individual 
cylinders. As he looked at it, he had a curious feeling that eyes 
gleamed from between these rods; but wherever he glanced at 
the construction, he saw only the spaces between them.

—Ramsey Campbell, The Render of the Veils

A strange, geometric being, Daoloth does not appear to be 
particularly malign. It lives somewhere beyond our universe, 
but may be summoned into it.

Cult
Daoloth is currently worshiped on Yuggoth and other alien 
worlds,  but  seems  to  have  little  earthly  cult.  His  astrolo-
ger-priests can see the past and future, and perceive how ob-
jects extend into the last dimension. They gain the power to 
travel into other dimensions and to see other types of reality. 

Seeing Daoloth is disastrous, for the human eye 
is unable to follow the god’s moving outline, 
thus  causing  madness  in  the  beholder. 
Daoloth’s few human cultists summon 
the god only in absolute blackness.

Other Characteristics
The  god’s  presence  causes  disaster 
among  humankind.  If  he  is  not 
carefully held inside some magical 
barrier,  his  form  expands  and 
engulfs  anyone  nearby.  Those  en-
gulfed  by  Daoloth  are  immediately 
sent  to  distant  and  dismal  worlds  or 
alternate  dimensions,  from  which  they 

rarely return.
Daoloth  moves  unconventionally,  either 
by  expanding  his  shape  or  by  slipping  through 
dimensions. He expands at 8 meters radius per round and 
can continue expanding to any size.

SIZ varies  DEX 150 

DAOLOTH, The Render of the Veils
STR N/A  CON 500 
POW 350  HP 100
Damage Bonus: N/A
Build: varies
Magic Points: 70
Move: 8

INT 250

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Daoloth doesn’t fight in any normal way.
Engulf:  Automatic  success;  sends  victim  to  another  plane  of  ex-

istence.

Armor: Anything  striking  or  penetrating  Daoloth  is  transported 
to another dimension, but any spell which the Keeper thinks 
appropriate might cause harm or repel.

Spells:  It  might  know  any  spell  dealing  with  seeing  or  traveling 
to other worlds, planes, and dimensions, and whatever other 
spells the Keeper thinks appropriate.

Sanity Loss: 1D10/1D100 Sanity points in the first round the god 
is visible; every round thereafter automatically lose 1D10 San-
ity points while nearby.

Daoloth

317 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsOn the summoning of The Render of the Veils, first find 
the sacred image of HIM and prepare the ritual space, 
making sure that the Pentacle of Planes is affixed and 
ready.  A  knife  to  cut  your  life’s  blood,  made  ready 
through the proper preparations, is held and the sum-
moning  may  commence.  Beware  of  greed  as  but  one 
wish shall The Render deliver. 

Eihort
Then came pale movement in the well, and something clam-
bered up from the dark, a bloated blanched oval supported on 
myriad fleshless legs. Eyes formed in the  
gelatinous oval and stared at him.

