  and  well-bred 
air is the mind of a fanatic, and a misguided one. Anthony 
Flinders is a history student, one that tried repeatedly and 
unsuccessfully  to  attach  himself  to  Professor  Leiter’s  team 
and  the  categorizing 
of  the  Hobbhouse  Pa-
pers,  and  who  was  re-
peatedly  rebuffed.  His 
interests,  so  claimed 
were purely in the pur-
suit  of  his  proposed 
thesis,  which  focuses 
on  the  Arkham  Witch 
Trials,  and  the  refusal 
on Leiter’s part was an 
instance  of  the  man, 
while being a criminal 
and  forger,  being  a 
good  judge  of  char-
acter.  Enquiries  about 
Flinders  on  campus 
will  reveal  somebody 
who  superficially  fits 

Anthony Flinders

in  and  a  student  with  an  unremarkable  academic  record 
who takes part in the life of the university at least in a cur-
sory  fashion.  However,  detailed  questioning  will  reveal  no 
close friends anybody can point to, coupled with a certain 
underlying  unease  about  him  from  those  who  have  spent 
extended time with the man.

Anthony  Flinders  is  not  merely  focusing  his  historical 
studies  on  the  witch  trials,  he  is  obsessed  with  them  and 
worse,  secretly  he  is  a  true  believer—a  self-made  Satanist, 
a cult of one whose creed is mangled from a dozen biblical 
and  historical  sources,  but  one  who  is  woefully,  suicidally 
ignorant of the truth. 

Facts and Clues

T  Flinders knows relatively little about the true course 
of  events  but  possesses  an  obsessive’s  knowledge 
about the Arkham Witch Trials, the legend of Keziah 
Mason, and Arkham folklore. He believes the Witch 
Trial  Papers  contain  "true  magical  formulae"  that 
will enable him to make a Faustian pact, but will not 
divulge this fact unless under extreme duress.
T  In the lead-up to Leiter’s death, he intermittently fol-
lowed and observed the professor and may be aware of 
Leiter’s growing paranoia and one or more of Leiter’s 
contacts, such as Lucy Stone, Cecil Hunter, or Abner 
Wick, but will not give up this information willingly.
T  He broke into Leiter’s house on September the 11th in 
search of the papers. On failing to find them, he made 
do with stealing some minor personal possessions.

Roleplaying hooks

T  Enthusiastic to secure the papers for his own private 

purposes.

T  Will  "help"  the  investigators—whether  they  want 

him to or not.

T  Full  of  crazy  ideas,  which  he  will  try  to  present  as 
plausible theories to the investigators, such as, "Fal-
lon  has  stolen  the  Witch  Trial  Papers  for  profit," 
"Fallon  and  Roach  are  lovers  and  conduct  black 
magic  rituals,"  "Court  is  a  witch  who  killed  Leiter 
and has the papers."

Keeper’s Notes: Flinders can serve a number of purpos-
es, not least as antagonist and spoiling factor. A borderline 
psychotic and certainly delusional, he’s perfectly willing to 
use violence to achieve his aims, so long as he believes he can 
get away with it or the reward outweighs the risk. If snubbed, 
he  will  balk  at  open  attack  for  fear  of  being  overpowered 
or arrested. Stalking and attacking an isolated investigator, 
arson of lodgings, and faking a hit and run accident in an