 to see Rhan-Tegoth.

Shub-Niggurath

“Iä! Iä! Shub-Niggurath! The Black Goat of the Woods  
with a Thousand Young!”

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Whisperer in Darkness

Shub-Niggurath is often referred to in rituals and spells. It 
has been guessed that she is a perverse fertility deity.

In one of her few descriptions, Shub-Niggurath is said 
to be an enormous cloudy mass. This mass doubtless boils 
and  festers.  It  is  likely  that  parts  of  the  mist  coalesce  at 
times, forming horrendous body parts, ropy black tentacles, 
slime-dripping  mouths,  or  short  writhing  legs,  ending  in 
black hooves which may account for the titular reference to 
“goat”. When she arrives, she may bud-off dark young.

Recent  information  suggests  that  her  milk  may  have 

remarkable properties, but Keepers must establish this.

325 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsSeize (mnvr) grabs one victim and automatic bite next round
Bite  Automatic  when  seized,  damage  is  3D10  STR  drained  per 

Shudde M'ell

round 

Trample 75% (37/15) damage equals damage bonus 
Armor:  No  armor,  however  her  slimy  mist  body  is  immune  to 
physical  weapons.  Magical  weapons  or  fire,  electricity,  or 
similar energies damage her normally. Her ropy tentacles and 
gooey vapors can re-join, effectively allowing her to regenerate 
points of damage. Each magic point she expends enables her to 
heal 2 points of damage.

Spells: Shub-Niggurath knows at minimum all spells pertaining to 
the gods; she is known to have imparted Create Gate, Curse of 
Azathoth, and Voorish Sign to favorites.

Sanity Loss: 1D10/1D100 Sanity points to see Shub-Niggurath.

The roots of Pagan and more modern religious rites are 
held by some to be pale reflections of earlier devotions 
to The Black Goat with a Thousand Young. The yearly 
cycle of death and rebirth, the harvest time sacrifices, 
the purging fire at Beltane, all hold traces of her wor-
ship. Whether the majority who follow the old prac-
tices of Eostre, Lammas, or Samhain are aware of the 
true origins is doubtful; however, there are certain wise 
folk still dwelling at the edges of society who certainly 
do  understand  the  meaning  of  the  rites.  One  should 
be wary of approaching such cunning folk as one can 
never be sure whose servant they truly are.

Shudde M’ell
A great gray thing a mile long chanting and exuding strange 
acids…charging through the depths of the earth at a fantastic 
speed, in a dreadful fury…melting basaltic rocks  
like butter under a blowtorch.

—Brian Lumley, The Burrowers Beneath

He is preeminent among the chthonians and apparently is 
the largest and most evil of his kind. According to legends he 
once was imprisoned beneath G’harne, however is now free 
to wander the Earth with his kin.

Cult
Chthonians, Shudde M’ell among them, are not much wor-
shiped by humans nowadays, though druids are rumored to 
have done so in the past and remnant Stone Age tribes may 
continue the practice. Perhaps the races that built G’harne 
did so to honor Shudde M’ell.

Other Characteristics
By  himself,  Shudde  M’ell  can  cause  a  local  earthquake  of 
shocking  intensity.  In  conjunction  with  other  chthonians, 
he  can  create  strong  earthquakes  of  regional  size,  strong 
enough to topple buildings or destroy bridges.

If  Shudde