Though investigators rarely have the chance, sorcerers and 
cultists sometimes swagger around with unseemly amounts 
of Power (POW). Where did it come from? 

When a character successfully casts a spell requiring an 
opposed POW roll to affect the target, this creates a chance 
for the caster’s POW to increase through this “exercise”. If 
the caster wins the opposed POW roll, a subsequent roll to 
increase his or her POW may be attempted. If the result of 
a 1D100 roll is greater than the caster’s POW (or the roll is 
96  or  greater),  the  caster’s  POW  increases  by  1D10  points 
permanently.

As a reward for any Luck roll result of 01, POW can be 
said to have been exercised. Roll the percentile dice and if 
the roll is greater than the character’s POW, or if the roll is 
96 or greater, the character’s POW increases by 1D10 points 
permanently.

The character may be able to arrange a gift of or a trade 
for  POW  from  some  Mythos  deity.  The  rationale  for  this 
is best left to the Keeper. Such an event is likely to increase 

179 

chapter 9: magicErnest  has  never  encountered  the  Cthulhu  Mythos, 
but  found  a  copy  of  the  Cultes  des  Goules  among 
his late uncle’s possessions. Having finished an initial 
reading, the Keeper grants Ernest +4 points of Cthul-
hu Mythos skill and describes some of the book’s con-
tents and the magical rituals it purports to document. 
The  Keeper  then  asks  whether  Ernest  believes  what 
he  is  reading.  Ernest  is  a  scientist  and  has  no  truck 
with  this  superstitious  mumbo-jumbo,  though  he  is 
intrigued by it. Ernest therefore loses no Sanity points 
as a result of his reading.

Weeks  later,  Ernest  encounters  a  ghoul  while 
delving around the family vault, and fails his Sanity 
roll.  In  addition  to  the  Sanity  point  loss  for  seeing 
the ghoul (1D6), Ernest must also lose Sanity points 
equal to his present Cthulhu Mythos skill at the reve-
lation that his accumulated knowledge of the Mythos 
is founded on truth! Ernest loses 6 Sanity points (4 for 
the Cthulhu Mythos skill points he gained when read-
ing the tome plus 2 for encountering the ghoul). The 
loss  is  potentially  insanity  inducing—Ernest  passes 
his Intelligence roll and goes temporarily insane.

Cthulhu Mythos as well, and would cost additional Sanity 
points besides those lost in communicating with the entity.
Increasing  Power  does  not  increase  current  Sanity 

points.

Non-Mythos Magic
Other earthly magic or religiosity can be significant and can 
have effects in the game if the Keeper wills it. Such earthly 
“magick”  may  be  real  or  fraudulent;  this  is  for  the  Keeper 
(perhaps in discussion with the player group) to determine.
Mechanics and procedures for such magic should be the 
same as those for Mythos magic, though the means and aims 
of earthly magic will greatly differ. If non-Mythos magic is 
accepted in your game, it is suggested that you tie it to the 
Occult skill. Horrific deeds should always cost Sanity points.

Optional Rules
Spontaneous Use of the  

Cthulhu Mythos Skill
Knowledge of the Cthulhu Mythos not only allows a character 
to  learn  and  cast  spells,  it  also  allows  someone  to  improvise 
magical effects akin to spells. This is resolved in the same way 
as any regular skill use. The player first states an aim; the Keeper 
then considers if the aim is acceptable, suggesting a lesser aim 
in preference to blocking the player’s proposal