 supple-
ments available. Published scenarios can be a great source of 
information about crafting a story into an adventure, as well 
as providing an insight into how the game can be played.  

Finding Players
Okay, so you’ve got the Call of Cthulhu rulebook and some 
roleplaying  dice,  and  you’re  ready  to  run  a  game—except 
you’ve got no players! What can you do?

Here are a few ideas to get you gaming:
Talk  to  your  friends.  Show  them  the  rulebook  and  tell 
them about how cool the game sounds. Perhaps get them to 
read one of Lovecraft’s stories to see if they like it, preferably 
a  short  one  like  The  Outsider.  You  could  also  ask  family 
members to try the game. Essentially, you only need a Keep-
er  and  one  player,  but  if  you  can  get  two  or  three  players 
together then that’s ideal. 

Ask in your local hobby store or put a notice up. Talk to 
the staff in the hobby store and ask if there is a game of Call 
of Cthulhu you can join—many stores have gaming rooms 
where  people  can  get  together  to  play.  Perhaps  a  group  is 
looking  for  a  new  player?  Failing  that,  ask  if  you  can  put 
a notice up saying that you want to start a Call of Cthulhu 
game and need players.

Many schools, colleges, and universities have roleplaying 
societies and groups. If there’s not one where you are, per-
haps you can start one. This can be a really good way to meet 
like-minded people.

Go to a local gaming convention. Gaming conventions 
come in all shapes and sizes, and they are held all around 
the  world.  Perhaps  your  local  gaming  store  can  point  you 
in the right direction. Conventions provide the opportunity 
to  meet  new  people,  make  friends,  and  play  games.  Even 
though you might not find anyone local to you, you’ll have 
the  chance  to  play  games  and  get  some  experience  before 
starting your own group.

184 

Call of CthulhuLook  online  at  Cthulhu  gaming  sites.  Look  at  www.
yog-sothoth.com and www.mu-podcast.com, where people 
from all around the world discuss Call of Cthulhu. 

Preparing to Play the Game
The  purpose  of  roleplaying  is  to  have  a  good  time—that 
should not need saying, but as with any hobby, some people 
get so caught up in the moment that they lose sight of this 
most basic of requirements.

Some tips for creating atmosphere in your games:
Try to play in a room where there is no one but the gam-
ing group; having your daughter running around the table 
or your brother watching football on TV in the same room 
is not going to help!

Set up the gaming area appropriately. Close the curtains 
and  dim  the  lights  a  little  (remember  you  still  need  to  be 
able to read the scenario and the players need to be able to 
see  their  investigator  sheets  and  the  dice).  Using  low-light 
lamps, LED penlights, or candles can be very effective—but 
never leave lit candles unattended!

Turn  cell/mobile  phones  to  silent  (or  preferably  turn 
them off) for the duration of the game. Likewise, put away 
the computers and tablets—everyone’s focus should be on 
the game. Being distracted by electronic devices is a surefire 
way to dispel any sense of atmosphere.

Suitable  music  playing  low  in  the  background  can  be 
great for establishing a mood. Avoid pop and rock songs as 
familiarity  and  the  sudden  changes  in  tempo  and