 up to the caster.

Alternative  names:  Annexation  of  the  Fiery  Devil,  Au-

thority of the Blazing Tongue.

Bind Hunting Horror: The blood sacrifice of a sentient be-
ing is needed. The caster does not perform the sacrifice—the 
hunting horror seizes the sacrifice. The caster must succeed 
in an opposed POW roll to bind the Horror.

Alternative  names:  Tie  The  Twisting  Fear  to  Thy  Will, 

Deed of Murder. 

Bind Nightgaunt: If the caster has a stone emblazoned with 
the cryptic Elder Sign they gain one bonus on the opposed 
POW roll.

Alternative  names:  Mastery  of  the  Faceless  Ones,  The 

Elder Token by which They will Know You.

Bind Servitor Of The Outer Gods: If the caster possesses an 
enchanted flute they gain one bonus die to bind the Servitor.
Alternative names: The Secret Note of Command, Pact of 

Wittering Madness.

264 

Call of CthulhuBind  Star  Vampire:  If  the  caster  possesses  an  enchanted 
book  containing  the  spell  they  gain  one  bonus  die  on  the 
opposed POW roll.

Alternative names: Vow of the Bloody Accord, The Un-

godly Promise.

Voorish Sign 
Cost: 1 magic point; 1 Sanity point
Casting time: 1 round

They from outside will help, but they cannot take body 
without human blood. That upstairs looks it will have the 
right cast. I can see it a little when I make the Voorish sign.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Dunwich Horror
An ancient and powerful hand gesture used by wizards that 
benefits  the  casting  of  other  spells.  It  may  lessen  the  cost, 
reduce the casting time or increase the effect a little, depend-
ing on the spell in question. 

Voorish Sign is also rumored to temporarily ward against 
Mythos monsters—such creatures are wary of the sign and 
may hold off an attack until the wizard’s intentions are known.

Alternative names: Sign of Power, Cunninge Pass.

Warding 
Cost: 1 magic point per stone
Casting time: 5 rounds

A number of ordinary white stones are placed on the ground 
as the caster pleases, except that each must be within a yard 
of  each  of  the  others. When  cast,  a  shimmering  heat  haze 
can be seen over the stones. Thereafter if any stone is moved, 
the caster will be aware of the fact, even if asleep until then. 
Once this has occurred, the spell is broken.

Alternative  names:  Stones  of  Safekeeping,  Leave  Thy 

Burden to the Rock, Circle of Protection.

Wave of Oblivion 
Cost: 30 magic points; 1D8 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 hour

A mighty spell that causes a powerful ocean wave to smash 
down  at  the  caster’s  direction.  The  caster  must  be  able  to 
see the intended target and sufficient quantities of salt water 
must be present to create the wave. The caster stands in the 
water to cast the spell.

The wave volume is 3,000 cubic feet, enough to swamp 
or capsize a small sloop. Needless to say, people swallowed 
up by such waves vanish forever below the surface.

Others can contribute magic points to the spell to create 
vast  waves  capable  of  sinking  ocean  liners,  battleships,  or 
Manhattan Island. Those knowing the spell can contribute 
as many magic points as desired and must expend 1D8 San-
ity points. Those who do not know the spell can contribute 
1 magic point each. At a minimum of 30 magic points, the 
wave is ten feet long, ten feet wide and thirty feet high. Each 
additional magic point adds a foot to the length and width 
of the wave.

Alternative names: Song of the Ocean’s Fist, The Salt Gift, 

Ye Watery Doom.

Wither Limb 
Cost