. The Keeper plays the thing and must create some 
motivation for the thing’s behavior. Mostly, when a Mythos 
deity arrives on Earth, it wants to stay and is usually hungry.

Call Deity Spell Requirements

As mentioned, each deity requires certain conditions to be in 
place for the Call spell to work. Keepers should use these as 
inspiration but not be constrained by them for two reasons. 
The  first  reason  is  fiction-based;  no  human  fully  under-
stands the Cthulhu Mythos, so there may be more than one 
way to Call a Deity. The second reason is that experienced 
players will quickly latch onto the familiar elements and the 
mystery will be blown.

Call Azathoth: Calling this god is extremely dangerous and 
has the potential to fry the entire planet. The spell can be 
cast only outside at night; however, no other special prepa-
rations are needed.

Alternative names:  Petition  of  Chaos, The  Unspeakable 

Vowel of The Shaggai.

Call Cthugha: Cthugha bursts into being through a flame 
held by the caster (a candle, torch, etc.) As the caster intones 
the  spell,  he  or  she  moves  the  flame  in  series  of  patterns. 
The spell can be successfully cast only on clear nights when 
Fomalhaut  (the  brightest  star  in  the  Piscis Austrinus  con-
stellation)  clears  the  horizon.  September  to  November  are 
the best nights for Fomalhaut in the Northern Hemisphere.
Alternative names: Evocation of the Fiery Burning Doom, 

The Formalhaut Convention.

Call Hastur: Calls the deity to nine large blocks of stone ar-
ranged in a V-pattern (always a sign of cult activity!) Each of 
the stone blocks needs a volume of nine or more cubic yards.
The spell can be cast only on clear nights when Aldebaran 
(in the constellation of Taurus) is above the horizon (roughly 
October to March). Each byakhee present during Call Hastur 
adds a further 10 percentiles to the chance for success.

If 5 points of POW have been sacrificed into each of the 
stone blocks, so that all are enchanted, the stone V adds 30 
percentiles to the chance to cast Summon/Bind Byakhee.

Alternative names: The Yellow Petition.

Call  Ithaqua:  Focuses  the  attention  of  Ithaqua;  however, 
the presence of the Great Old One may be noticed only as a 
whirlwind or strong icy wind. The spell must be cast on an 
enormous mound of snow (minimum 10 feet high). Legend 
states that the spell may only be performed in the far north 
of the world, when temperatures are below freezing. Some 
wizards conjecture that Ithaqua might be invoked from any 
high, snowy mountain, even those in the South Pole.

Alternative names: The Seven Oaths of the North Wind, 

Invoke the Ice God.

Call Nyogtha:  Invokes  the  favor  of  Nyogtha,  who  appears 
to grant a boon to the caster—if Nyogtha deems the cast-
er  worthy.  The  caster  must  perform  the  spell  ritual  at  the 
entrance  to  any  cavern  (certain  tomes  hint  that  all  great 
caverns link to the one wherein Nyogtha dwells).

Alternative  names:  Petition  Thy  Dark  Master  Through 
the Rigorous Wailing, Call Favor from HE which Dwells Below.

Call  Shub-Niggurath:  Calls  Shub-Niggurath  to  a  conse-
crated  stone  altar.  This  altar  must  be  positioned  in  dank 
wilderness  under  the  sky.  The  spell  must  be  cast  from  the 
altar at the dark of the moon.

Each  Call  of  the  dark  goddess  requires  fresh  blood  to 
