 did they help you? 
(e.g.  financially,  they  protected  you  through  hard 
times, got you your first job).

7:  The grave of a significant person. Who? (e.g. a par-

ent, a child, a lover).

8:  Your  family  home  (e.g.  a  country  estate,  a  rented 
flat, the orphanage in which you were raised).
9:  The  place  you  were  happiest  in  your  life  (e.g.  the 
park bench where you first kissed, your university).

2:  They  taught  you  something. What?  (e.g.  a  skill,  to 

10: Your workplace (e.g. the office, library, bank).

love, to be a man).

3:  They give your life meaning. How? (e.g. you aspire 
to be like them, you seek to be with them, you seek 
to make them happy).

4:  You  wronged  them  and  seek  reconciliation.  What 
did you do? (e.g. stole money from them, informed 
the  police  about  them,  refused  to  help  when  they 
were desperate).

5:  Shared  experience.  What?  (e.g.  you  lived  through 
hard  times  together,  you  grew  up  together,  you 
served in the war together).

6:  You  seek  to  prove  yourself  to  them.  How?  (e.g.  by 
getting  a  good  job,  by  finding  a  good  spouse,  by 
getting an education).

7:  You  idolize  them  (e.g.  for  their  fame,  their  beauty, 

their work).

8:  A feeling of regret (e.g. you should have died in their 
place, you fell out over something you said, you didn’t 
step up and help them when you had the chance).
9:  You wish to prove yourself better than them. What 

was their flaw? (e.g. lazy, drunk, unloving).

10: They  have  crossed  you  and  you  seek  revenge.  For 
what do you blame them? (e.g. death of a loved one, 
your financial ruin, marital breakup).

Meaningful Locations
Roll 1D10 or pick one of the following. Take the result and 
make it specific and personal to your investigator. Think of 
a name for these places.

1:  Your seat of learning (e.g. school, university).
2:  Your  hometown  (e.g.  rural  village,  market  town, 

busy city).

Treasured Possessions
Roll 1D10 or pick one of the following. Take the result and 
make it specific and personal to your investigator.

1:  An item connected with your highest skill (e.g. ex-

pensive suit, false ID, brass knuckles).

2:  An essential item for your occupation (e.g. doctor’s 

bag, car, lock picks).

3:  A  memento  from  your  childhood  (e.g.  comics, 

pocketknife, lucky coin).

4:  A  memento  of  a  departed  person  (e.g.  jewelry,  a 

photograph in your wallet, a letter).

5:  Something given to you by your Significant Person 

(e.g. a ring, a diary, a map).

6:  Your collection. What is it? (e.g. bus tickets, stuffed 

animals, records).

7:  Something you found but you don’t know what it is – 
you seek answers (e.g. a letter you found in a cupboard 
written in an unknown language, a curious pipe of un-
known origin found among your late father’s effects, a 
curious silver ball you dug up in your garden).
8:  A sporting item (e.g. cricket bat, a signed baseball, a 

fishing rod).

9:  A  weapon  (e.g.  service 