Surviving Copies 

Condemned  and  destroyed  by  the  Church,  only  five  copies 
of  the  Necronomicon  are  known  to  exist  today,  although 
an  unknown  number  of  copies  may  still  be  held  in  private 
collections.  Copies  that  reach  the  open  market  are  usually 
purchased  by  libraries  or  private  collectors.  The  resultant 
increase  in  value  has  driven  the  price  beyond  the  range  of 
most serious students of the occult. Few can afford to obtain 
their own copies of this dark and powerful book, and, given 
the  value  and  fragile  conditions  of  the  existing  copies,  few 
public institutions allow unrestricted access.

The documented extant copies are all Latin versions, four 
from the surreptitious 17th-century Spanish printing and the 
fifth  a  single  surviving  specimen  of  the  fine  16th-century 
German edition. The four remnants of the edition printed in 
Spain are presently held in the collections of the Bibliothèque 
Nationale  in  Paris,  the  Miskatonic  University  Library  in 
Arkham, the Widener Library at Harvard, and the library of 
the University of Buenos Aires. The precious single copy of 
the edition printed in Germany resides in the British Museum 
in London.

Continued on following page

231 

chapter 11: Tomes of Eldritch LoreContinued from following page

Although the last known copy in Greek is believed to have 
perished in flames during the chaos of the Salem witch trials 
in Massachusetts, rumors of other Greek copies occasionally 
surface.  The  most  recent  of  these  claimed  that  a  copy  was 
owned by the New York artist Richard Upton Pickman. If true, 
the book apparently disappeared along with the artist in 1926.
Handmade copies of the Dee version, most of them dam-
aged  and  incomplete,  are  still  occasionally  unearthed.  The 
most recent find was made by Miskatonic University, which 
now has a nearly complete Dee Necronomicon in its enviable 
collection. The decidedly less rare Sussex Manuscript also can 
be found in Miskatonic’s collection and in many other large 
libraries as well. It is generally believed that no copies of the 
Arabic  original  have  survived  to  the  present  day,  although 
persistent rumors suggest that a copy surfaced in San Francis-
co shortly before the disastrous earthquake and fire of 1906. 
The claim that an Arabic copy is part of the collection in the 
British Museum has been recently disproved.

Physical Descriptions 

All  known  printed  editions  of  the  Necronomicon  are  fo-
lio-sized.  The  Latin  editions  printed  in  Spain  and  Germany 
measure  18  by  11-1/2  inches  and  contain  802  pages,  one 
leaf being bound in as a tabbed insert. Records suggest that 
the  Greek  version  was  several  pages  longer.  The  type  style 
is  black-letter  gothic  and  numerous  woodcuts  illustrate  the 
text. Bindings, as with all books of this period, are individual, 
reflecting the tastes of the books’ original owners. 

The  Necronomicon  found  in  the  British  Museum  is  in  a 
15th-century leather binding still in fair condition. Printed in 
Germany, the text is in good condition but lamentably lacks 

seven different leaves, each cut away and removed with great 
care.  This  volume  was  among  the  three  libraries  of  books 
bequeathed to the people of England that led to the founding 
of the British Museum in 1753.

The copy found in the Bibliothèque Nationale is in poor 
condition,  bound  in  the  cheap,  crumbling  pasteboards 
common  to  the