 
to follow the wishes of the other party. If the player refuses to act in 
accordance with the wishes of the character who is coercing them, the 
latter can inflict one penalty die on one dice roll (of the coercer’s choice) 
made by the player of the coerced investigator. This penalty die need 
not be applied to the very next dice roll, but does not last indefinitely. 
Only one penalty die can be held by one character against any other 
single character at a time.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a 
Pushed  roll:  fall  and  suffer  damage 
(1D6 damage per ten feet onto grass, or 
1D10 damage per 10 feet onto concrete); 
lose a valuable possession as it falls from 
your  pocket  (you  may  not  notice  this 
until later); become stranded, unable to 
go up or down.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a 
pushed roll, he or she holds on for dear 
life and screams at the top of their lungs 
for as long as they can.

Computer Use (05%) 
[Modern]
This skill allows the investigator to pro-
gram  in  various  computer  languages; 
retrieve and analyze obscure data; break 
into  a  secured  system;  explore  a  com-
plicated  network;  or  detect  or  exploit 
intrusions,  back  doors,  and  viruses. 
Special  manipulation  of  a  computer 
system may require this roll.

The  Internet  places  a  wealth  of  in-
formation at the fingertips of an investi-
gator. Use of the Internet to find highly 
specific  and/or  obscure  information 
may  require  a  combined  dice  roll  for 
Computer Use and Library Use.

This  skill  is  not  needed  to  use 
computers  when  surfing  the  Internet, 
collecting email or to run regular com-
mercially available software. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
i  Regular  difficulty:  write,  analyze 
and debug a computer program.
i Hard difficulty: decipher and hack 
into  a  secure  network  without  being 
identified or traced.

Pushing examples: taking longer to de-
velop  a  program;  using  another’s  code 
as  a  shortcut;  using  untested  software 
(e.g. a virus) to exploit a system.

repeated rolls). A challenging or longer climb should have 
an increased difficulty level.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  plenty  of  handholds;  perhaps  a 

rope or drainpipe to climb.

i  Hard  difficulty:  few  handholds,  or  surfaces  slick 

with rain.

Pushing  examples:  reassessing  the  climb;  taking  a  longer 
route; straining one’s reach.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a 
Pushed  roll:  accidentally  erasing  the  sought-after  files, 
or  even  corrupting  the  whole  system;  leaving  evidence  or 
alerting  others  through  your  actions;  infesting  your  own 
computer/network with a virus.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she is 
lost in cyberspace, and it will require physical intervention 
to get the person to stop using the computer or look away 
from the screen.

60 

Call of CthulhuCredit Rating (0%)
A  measure  of  how  prosperous  and  financially  confident 
the  investigator  appears  to  be.  Money  opens  doors;  if  the 
investigator is attempting to use his or her financial status 
to achieve a goal then use of the Credit Rating skill may be 
appropriate. Credit Rating can be used in place of APP to 
gauge first impressions.

Credit Rating is not so much a skill as a gauge of financial 
wealth, and should not be ticked as other skills are. A high 
Credit Rating can be a useful resource in play, and so should 
