ERS

Drain Magic Points from Humans: Typically, lloigor human 
servants come from families with histories of mental instabil-
ity. The lloigor need humans to survive, as these immaterial 
entities must draw energy from intelligent beings to perform 
necessary tasks. By expending one of its own magic points a 
lloigor may drain 1D6 magic points (per night) from a sleep-
ing human to use in performing some magical action. A lloi-
gor can drain energy from several sleeping humans at once, 
from up to several miles away despite intervening obstacles. 

The  next  morning,  the  victims  wake  complaining  of 
headaches and a bad night's sleep. With continued draining, 
such  individuals  become  physically  and  spiritually  weak, 
leading to sickness and possibly death. Whenever a victim 
is drained of any magic points by lloigor in this way, a CON 
roll  (at  Regular  difficulty  level)  must  be  made  before  any 
magic points can be recovered. If the CON roll succeeds, the 
victim regains 1 magic point and wakes. If the roll is failed 
no magic points are recovered and the victim continues to 
sleep, whereupon the lloigor may drain another 1D6 magic 
points from the victim over the next hour, after which an-
other CON roll is attempted, and so on.

Telekinetic Effects: The lloigor can push people and manipu-
late objects such as a compass needle or a door latch via tele-
kinesis. The (presumably immaterial) lloigor must be directly 
present and within a few yards of the effect. It takes 10 magic 
points to create a telekinetic force of STR 5 above ground, 6 
magic points to create telekinesis of STR 5 in a subsurface but 
open area, such as a river bed or canyon, and 3 magic points 
to cause telekinesis of STR 5 in a tunnel or cave. A group of 
lloigor  might  combine  telekinesis,  increase  the  STR  of  the 
effect and so perform potent deeds.

Reptilian Manifestation: To take the shape of a monstrous 
distorted reptile, a lloigor must expend magic points equal 
to one-fifth of the lloigor’s SIZ. Once the body is formed, it 
may  be  maintained  indefinitely  or  dissolved  at  will.  If  the 
lloigor is slain in reptile form, it dies permanently. Several 
lloigor may combine their magic points to permit a single 
one  to  create  a  physical  form  quickly.  A  lloigor  in  reptile 
form  has  all  the  powers  of  one  in  the  immaterial  mode, 
except that it cannot pass through walls and is not invisible.

300 

Call of CthulhuMi-Go, the Fungi from Yuggoth

They were pinkish things about five feet long; with crusta-
ceous bodies bearing vast pairs of dorsal fins or membranous 
wings and several sets of articulate limbs, and with a sort of 
convoluted ellipsoid, covered with multitudes of very short 
antenna, where a head would ordinarily be...  
Sometimes they walked on all their legs and s 
ometimes on the hind-most pair only.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Whisperer in Darkness

The  fungi  from  Yuggoth  are  an  interstellar  race,  with  a 
large  colony  or  base  on  the  planet Yuggoth  (Pluto).  There 
are  mining  colonies  in  the  mountains  of  Earth,  where  the 
mi-go seek rare metallic ores. The mi-go are not animal in 
physiology, being more akin to a form of fungus. They com-
municate  with  each  other  by  changing  the  colors  of  their 
brain-like heads; however, they can speak human tongues in 
buzzing, insect-like voices. 

Unable to eat terrene