Originally written by 

Sandy Petersen

With later revision by 

Lynn Willis

This revised 7th Edition is a collaboration between 

Paul Fricker and Mike Mason

Editorial: Scott Dorward, Badger McInnes, Mike Mason, Charlie Krank

Design Format: Badger McInnes and Mike Mason

Layout: Badger McInnes, Nicholas Nacario, Charlie Krank

Art Direction: Mike Mason, Meghan McLean, Daniel Skomorowski

Cover Illustration: Sam Lamont

Chapter Illustrations: Jonathan Wyke, Paul Carrick, Rob Gould, François Launet, Victor Leza,  
Charles Wong, Mike Perry, Nicholas Cloister, Antonio Luis, Kalli Schulz

Interior Illustrations:  Rachel Kahn, Grilla, Chris Huth, Loïc Muzy, Paul Carrick, Scott Neil,  
Jonathan Wyke, Victor Leza, Sam Lamont, Celeste Burcham, Caryad, Antonio Mainez, Tom Sullivan, Marco Morte

Cristoforo Font created by: Thomas Phinney

Cartography: Steff Worthington

For Lynn Willis

Acknowledgements 
The authors would like to thank the following people for their 
ongoing  support  and  assistance:  Charlie  Krank,  Christian 
Grussi, Keary Birch, Alan Bligh, John French, Scott Dorward, 
Matthew  Sanderson,  Dean  Engelhardt,  Matt  Anderson, 
Tim Vincent, Kevin White, Garrie Hall, Pedro Ziviani, Dan 
Kramer, Scott David Aniolowski, Brian Courtemache, Brian 
Sammons, Chad Bowser, Tom Lynch, Andrew Leman of the 
HPLHS, and of course Sandy Petersen, without whom none 
of this would have happened! 

Dedications
To my father, who introduced me to Lovecraft and to science 
fiction in general. From one of his books I read my first Love-
craftian story, “Pickman’s Model.”

Thanks, Dad. —S.P.

For my boys, Felix and Ernest.

You're the best! —Mike Mason

To  my  friend,  Phillip  Sidebotham,  for  introducing  me  to 
both roleplaying games and the works of H.P. Lovecraft. 

—Paul Fricker

To  the  fans  and  backers  of  Call  of  Cthulhu  and  Chaosium 
who helped to make this new edition a reality. To all those 
around the world who give their time and energy to spread 
the word, and are truly one of us. Our thanks to you all!

In Sanity—Chaosium

Clear Credit
Paul Fricker revised and wrote the 7th edition rules with de-
velopment and additional material from Mike Mason. Chap-
ter 11 was written by Paul Fricker and Mike Mason. Chapters 
5,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16  were  revised  with  additional  material 
by Mike Mason and Paul Fricker. Amidst the Ancient Trees 
was written by Matthew Sanderson with additional material 
by Mike Mason. Crimson Letters was written by Alan Bligh 
with additional material by Mike Mason, and play test notes 
from Christopher Smith Adair. The timelines were updated 
by John French and Mike Mason. Updated equipment costs 
were provided by Mike Mason and Dan Kramer. The 7th edi-
tion investigator sheets were designed by Dean Engelhardt. 
Joe  Schillizzi  also  helped  with  the  revised  weapon  tables. 
Tony Williams assisted with Cristoforo font typesetting.

This edition additionally draws from earlier editions of 
the  Call  of  Cthulhu  rules.  The  following  authors’  work  has 
been  used  or  revised  in  this  current  edition:  Sandy  Peters-
en, Lynn Willis, Keith Herber, Kevin Ross, Mark Morrison, 
William  Hamblin,  Scott  David  Aniolowski,  Michael  Tice, 
Shannon Appel, Eric Rowe, Bruce Ballon, William G. Dunn, 
Sam  Johnson,  Brian  M.  Sammons,  Jan  Eng