  scandal  that  might  ensue. Although,  as 
conventional a soul as he is, this mild cover-up is weighing 
heavily on his conscience.  

Facts and Clues

T  Wheatcroft both pronounced Leiter dead and took 
charge of the body (which is still in his possession 
in the Medical School facilities) and has performed 
a  private  autopsy  at  the  behest  of  Dean  Fallon.  If 
one  of  the  investigators  convinces  Wheatcroft  of 
their own medical training, have Wheatcroft involve 
the  investigator  in  the  autopsy  rather  than  having 
conducted it already.

T  Wheatcroft knew Leiter while alive only as a face passed 
occasionally in a corridor or glimpsed at a university 
ceremony—a fact he is now heartily glad of.

Roleplaying hooks

T  The doctor is anxious to get a promise from the inves-
tigators that they will not tell anyone about the true 
state of Leiter’s corpse, let alone show it to anyone!
T  He wants to be rid of the body as soon as possible 
(as its presence is distressing him); surely the inves-
tigators can help.

T  He  denies  any  belief  in  the  supernatural  (while 
constantly looking over his shoulder). He seeks reas-
surance and company.

Keeper’s Notes: Wheatcroft  will  be  reluctant  to  talk  at 
first, mainly out of guilt for his part in the cover up; how-
ever, if the investigators impress him with tact and compe-
tency (displaying medical or police procedural knowledge, 
for example), he will become more helpful and be glad to 
transfer responsibility in this matter to them.

Emilia Court, Postgraduate Student
An  intense  and  studious  young  woman,  whose  dress  and 
restrained manner downplay her good looks. Emilia Court 
is a postgraduate student who was tasked to assist Leiter in 
the cataloguing and research on the Hobbhouse papers. She 
had a cool dislike of Leiter but loved the work and applied 
herself to it with something approaching fervor. For Leiter’s 
part,  once  he  realized  she  was  immune  to  his  charms,  he 
realized  her  value  professionally  and  was  content  to  treat 
her with all the attention and care he might accord a useful 
adding machine—being careful to conceal any impropriety 
from her, though not entirely successfully. 

Facts and Clues

T  Court found Leiter’s body after she called a custo-
dian with a passkey when she couldn’t get in to do 
her assigned work. The memory is a harrowing one 
for her. Leiter was inside the locked office: dead on 
the floor behind his desk, papers and money strewn 
about him.

368 

Call of CthulhuThe Body in Question
The body of Professor Charles Leiter lies in the bowels 
of the Miskatonic University Medical School in locked 
cold storage, and will remain so until Dean Fallon has 
it  quietly  and  decently  cremated.  The  already-issued 
death  certificate  states  "massive  and  sudden  heart 
failure," which is no lie, but doesn’t exactly cover the 
whole of the truth. 

Leiter’s face is a screaming visage of horror, frozen 
in agony and terror at the moment of death. His eyes 
are  swollen,  whitish-grey  masses  of  colorless,  clot-
ted,  tissue.  Viewing  the  body  requires  a  Sanity  roll 
(0/1D4). Simply being around the body (even covered 
up)  has  an  unaccountably  unnerving  effect,  putting 
anybody nearby on edge and giving them the feeling 
of being watched. Ask for Listen rolls to hear a seem-
ing presence in the adjoining (empty) room (a Sign of 
Passage); such events are affecting the Doctor’s sanity.
The  Horror  may