 when multiple players act and 
speak  at  once,  so  to  maintain  order,  combat  is  structured 
into rounds, with each player taking one turn in each round. 
A  combat  round  is  a  deliberately  elastic  unit  of  time  in 
which everyone wishing to act and capable of doing so has 
a  chance  to  complete  at  least  one  action.  An  investigator’s 
equality  of  opportunity  is  much  more  important  than  the 
notion that a combat round must represent a precise amount 
of real-world time. When every investigator and other Keep-
er-controlled characters have had an opportunity to act, that 
combat round is over and the next round can begin. 

Dexterity and the Order of Attack 
The  question  of  who  gets  the  first  opportunity  to  attack 
can be an important issue in a fight. Determine the order 
of attack by ranking the combatants' DEX from highest to 
lowest. In the case of a draw, the side with the higher combat 
skill goes first.

Actions in a Combat Round
On  their  turn  in  the  DEX  order  (highest  to  lowest)  each 
character may use their action:

T  To initiate an attack using the Fighting or Firearms 

skill*.

T  To perform a fighting maneuver.
T  To flee from the combat.
T  To cast a spell.
T  To  perform  some  other  action  requiring  time  and 
perhaps  a  dice  roll,  such  as  picking  a  lock  while 
others fight.

*Note that some monsters are capable  of multiple attacks in 
one round: these all take place on the monster’s turn.

A  character  may  elect  to  delay  acting  until  another 
character has acted. If this leads to more than one character 
wishing to act simultaneously, the one with the highest DEX 
takes  priority.  If  both  insist  on  waiting  for  the  other,  the 
round may end with neither of them acting and therefore 
losing their action, after which play will continue with the 
usual order of combat next round.

102 

Call of CthulhuFist Fights
The man behind me—he only one of the party older than 
I—croaked the hackneyed “My God!” in the most cracked 
voice I ever heard. Of seven cultivated men, only Sir William 
Brinton retained his composure, a thing the more to his credit 
because he led the party and must have seen the sight first.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Rats In The Walls

To  explain  the  combat  rules,  we  shall  start  with  a  simple, 
old-fashioned, one-on-one fist fight. Later we can add rules 
for melee weapons, multiple opponents, firearms, and other 
options.

This  fight  might  be  a  barroom  brawl,  or  any  situation 
where  two  people  are  determined  to  hurt  one  another  in 
unarmed combat. This is not a boxing match or a martial 
arts class; there are no holds barred here. This is down and 
dirty: fists fly, feet lash out, hair is pulled, foreheads clash, 
nails rake, fingers twist, vulnerable parts are targeted, eyes 
gouged, and teeth spat out. This is all encompassed in one 
skill:  Brawling  (a  specialization  of  the  Fighting  skill).  The 
alternative to attacking is to try to avoid being hit, and this is 
represented by the Dodge skill. 

Melee  attacks  are  resolved  using  opposed  skill  rolls. 
When attacked, a character has a simple choice: either dodge 
or fight back. 

T  If the character chooses to fight back, use the target’s 
Fighting skill to oppose the attacker’s Fighting skill. 
T  If  the  character  chooses  to  dodge,  use  the  target’s 
Dodge skill to oppose the attacker’s Fighting