 
while  in  the  south  the  Great  Race  were  supreme.  Their 
greatest city was Pnakotus, in modern-day Australia.

This  race  flourished  from  about  four  hundred  million 
years ago until fifty million years ago, when they were ex-
terminated by the flying polyps, an ancient race which they 
had imprisoned when they first came to Earth. However, the 
minds of the Great Race had foreseen their doom and so fled 
their cone-shaped bodies, mentally travelling into the future 
and imposing their minds in the bodies of a beetle-like race 
destined to succeed mankind.

The  Great  Race  reproduce  by  means  of  spores,  but  do 
so  infrequently  because  of  their  long  individual  life  spans 
(4,000 to 5,000 years). Members feed solely on liquids.

The  Yithians  are  a  race  of  socialist  individuals.  They 
value intelligence above all else and use it as their criterion 
for immigration. Resources are shared among their kind out 
of a sense of intellectual logic and proportion. Strife is rare. 
The Great Race worship no gods.

SPECIAL POWERS
Time  Travel:  The  Great  Race  are  so-named  because  they 
conquered  time  so  thoroughly—the  only  race  known 
to have done so. A member of the race can send its mind 
forward  or  backward  through  time  and  across  space,  pick 
out a suitable subject and trade minds with it; whenever a 
member of the Great Race takes over the body of a being, 
that being’s mind is transferred into the body of the Great 
Race individual, there to stay until the being now inhabiting 
its old body sees fit to return and trade places once more. 
With this technique the race has traveled en masse through 
time and space and conquered other planets.

Keen students of history, an individual exchanges places 
with  a  select  individual  in  the  era  it  wishes  to  study.  The 
minds are switched for about five years. On Earth, friends 
notice  many  differences  about  the  substitute:  an  INT  roll 
would be appropriate to notice this.

Once forced into the alien Great Race body, the victim is 
caused to write down everything known about his or her own 
time. The Great Race are fairly kindly and permit their cap-
tives to travel about and see the country, as well as allowing 
them  to  meet  other  victims  like  themselves,  generally  from 
far-distant planets or eras. When the time comes to restore 
a  victim  to  his  or  her  own  body,  the  Great  Race  blanks  all 
memory of what has happened while the victim was trapped 
in their age. This erasure is imperfect: the victim may dream 
and have nightmares of being held by the Great Race.

A cult on present-day Earth aids and abets Great Race 
visitors.  In  exchange,  the  visitors  share  technological  or 
magical  knowledge.  Time-travel  is  the  primary  means  by 
which  a  member  of  this  race  could  be  met  in  its  original 
cone-body, though there have been scattered cases involving 
stasis cubes and sorcerous summonings across the aeons.

297 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien gods 
Hounds of Tindalos
“They are lean and athirst!” he shrieked...“All the evil in the 
universe was concentrated in their lean, hungry bodies. Or 
had they bodies? I saw them only for a moment,  
I cannot be certain.”

—Frank Belknap Long, The Hounds of Tindalos

The  hounds  of  Tindalos  dwell  in  the  distant  past  of  the 
earth, when normal life has not yet advanced past one-celled 
animals. They inhabit the angles of time, while other beings