Attacks per round: 1
Fighting Attacks: Fire vampires attack by touching their victims, 
and can set flammable objects alight  by  touch. They  damage 
humans by heat-shock. To determine the heat-shock, roll 2D6 
damage  for  the  vampire’s  attack.  If  the  investigator  passes  a 
CON roll, half of this damage is taken; if failed, the full damage 
is inflicted.

In the same attack, the vampire will try to steal magic points from 
its  target:  use  an  opposed  POW  roll;  if  the  vampire  wins,  it 
steals 1D10 magic points from the victim; if the target wins the 
roll, the fire vampire loses one of its own magic points. Thus, 

Fire Vampire 
(magnified image)

in each attack by a fire vampire, roll twice—once to determine 
heat damage and once to determine magic point loss.
Fighting  85%  (42/17), damage 2D6 burn + magic point drain 
Dodge 40% (20/8)
Armor: Standard material weapons cannot harm them, (blades, bul-
lets, etc.) Water costs a fire vampire one hit point per half-gallon 
poured over it, a typical handheld fire extinguisher does 1D6 hit 
points of damage to it, while a bucket of water costs it 1D3 hit 
points.

Sanity Loss: 0/D6 Sanity points for seeing a fire vampire.

Flying Polyp
A horrible elder race of half polypous, utterly alien entities…
They were only partly material and had the power of aerial 
motion, despite the absence of wings…Suggestions of a 
monstrous plasticity and of temporary lapses of visibility…
singular whistling noises and colossal foot-prints  
made up of five circular toe marks seemed  
also to be associated with them. 

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shadow Out of Time

This  unnamed  species  came  to  Earth  from  space  as  con-
querors  about  seven  hundred  and  fifty  million  years  ago. 
They  built  basalt  cities  with  high  windowless  towers  and 
inhabited  three  other  planets  in  the  solar  system  as  well. 
On Earth, they warred with the Great Race of Yith and were 
finally defeated and forced underground. At the close of the 
Cretaceous  era  (about  50  million  years  ago)  they  rose  up 
from their subterranean haunts and extracted their revenge 
by exterminating the Great Race.

Polyps still remain in their deep caverns and seem con-
tent to remain there, annihilating the few beings who chance 
upon them. The entrances to their dwellings are mostly deep 
within ancient ruins where there are great wells sealed over 
with stone. Inside these wells dwell the polyps still, ferocious 
alien fighters with a bewildering variety of attacks.

Ancient tales tell that they have the power to control great 
winds, able to cause devastation, as well as target individuals. 

292 

Call of CthulhuSPECIAL POWERS 

Invisibility: By spending 1 magic point per round, a polyp 
can turn totally invisible. It still can be roughly located by 
the constant, nauseating piping sound that always accom-
panies it. Anyone trying to hit an invisible polyp must make 
a successful Listen roll to tell where it is, and if located, any 
rolls to hit it are made with one penalty die. 

Polyps naturally phase in and out of visibility, so a Luck 
roll  must  be  made  with  each  attack  made  upon  it.  If  the 
Luck roll is failed the Polyp phases just at that moment and 
the  attack  is  made  with  one  penalty  die. When  a  polyp  is 
invisible, it does not attack with its tentacles, but may still 
use one of the wind attacks or cast spells.

Spells: Polyps have a 70% chance of knowing 