 to cast spells, 
as  well  as  to  energize  artifacts,  power  magical  gates,  and 
so  on. An  investigator  begins  the  game  with  Magic  points 
equal to one-fifth of his or her POW; however, cultists and 
powerful  sorcerers  often  have  larger  pools  of  points  from 
which to draw. 

Once an individual is out of Magic points, any further ex-
penditure is deducted directly from hit points. Any such loss of 
hit points will manifest as physical damage in a form chosen by 
the Keeper—perhaps sores and cuts opening on the body, skin 
blistering, or blood running from the eyes or ears.

Spending  or  sacrificing  Magic  points  or  points  of 
POW takes only the will of the owner. Doing so may leave 
sensations of pleasure mingled with regret, a numbness of 
the soul, or may not be noticeable at all. The spell caster’s 
essence or energy is channeled into powering the spell.

Some magical attacks leech Magic points or POW from 
unwilling targets. In those cases, loss may be characterized as 
being painful or as leaving a headache, or other minor symp-
toms. Involuntary loss of 10 POW would be a stronger sen-
sation than that of losing the same amount of Magic points.
If Magic points reach zero, the investigator deducts fur-

ther Magic point loss from hit points (one for one).

Regeneration of Magic points is a natural function, re-
turning at one Magic point per hour (two Magic points per 
hour for those with POW over 100, three Magic points per 
hour if POW is over 200 and so on). The number of Magic 
points  cannot  regenerate  to  a  value  above  one-fifth  of  the 
character’s POW. 

Magic  points  lost  as  hit  points  are  healed  according 
to  the  rules  for  Wounds and Healing  (page  119).  Healing 
of  hit  points  and  regeneration  of  Magic  points  can  occur 
concurrently.

Were  a  character  to  obtain  Magic  points  of  a  quantity 
greater  than  one-fifth  of  his  or  her  POW,  these  could  be 
spent, but the excess could not be regenerated.

Learning a Spell from a Mythos Book
Following an investigator conducting an initial reading of a 
book, the Keeper will indicate the presence and summarize 
each of the spells in a sentence or two, assuming the book 
contains  spells.  The  Keeper  should  not  use  the  rulebook 
name  of  a  spell,  but  might  instead  offer  a  description  like 
“broughte forth a Great Winged Beast from ye void which 
did sore crowde my place of busyness,” in place of the too 
accurate and too bland Summon Byakhee. Likewise, a spell 
called “the unremitting terror,” sounds a lot more credible 
than  Implant  Fear.  Suggestions  for  alternative  names  for 
spells are listed in Chapter 12: The Grimoire.

To  learn  a  spell  from  a  Mythos  book  requires  that  the 
investigator has at least made an initial reading of the book. 
The investigator chooses the spell to study. Learning a spell 
can take hours, days, weeks, or months (typically 2D6 weeks, 
but at the Keeper’s discretion). Just as with reading a Mythos 
book, learning a Mythos spell may be taken up, put aside, 
and  taken  up  again,  as  convenient.  Usually  a  roll  is  called 
for at this stage; however, the Keeper may choose to grant 
automatic success, depending on the scenario.

If success is not automatic, the player should attempt a 
Hard INT roll to learn the spell. If the player fails the roll, the 
investigator has not learned the spell. The player may ask to