 +1D6
Build: 2
Magic Points: 35
Move: 15 or can appear/disappear at will.

DEX 135 

INT 250

SIZ 70 

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1  gaze  attack,  6  razor  sharp  tatters,  or  1  face 

tentacle.

Fighting attacks: Some say the King has a strange facial tentacle 
hidden behind his pallid mask with which he kisses his wor-
shipers. Others say when he dances his tattered robes extend as 
pseudopodia, cutting those around him like razors. 

Gaze  of  the  Yellow  King:  Induces  paroxysms  of  fear  by  staring 
at  the  target,  costing  the  unfortunate  1D6  Sanity  points  per 
round while the King in Yellow focuses upon them (costing the 
King 3 magic points per round). To avoid the gaze for a round, 
the target must make an Extreme POW roll.

Fighting  100%  (50/20),  damage  by  razor  sharp  tatters  is  1D6  + 
damage bonus +1D6 POW, or by face tentacle is 1D10 + dam-
age bonus + 1D10 POW per round while attached.

Gaze Target must make an Extreme POW roll to resist, special (see 

above) 
Armor: None. 
Spells: All Call and Contact spells, and others as the Keeper desires.

321 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsThe King in Yellow

The Yellow Sign
Purported to be the great seal of He Who Is Not To Be 
Named  in  his  form  as  the  King  in  Yellow,  the  Yellow 
Sign holds great interest and power to those learned in 
the ways of the occult. No one single pattern can be 
agreed upon as to the Sign’s actual shape and design, 
with  many  claiming  the  Sign  somehow  changes  in 
aspect  whenever  its  master  or  His  servants  are  near. 
For years the innocent and ignorant may pass the sign 
daily without regard or knowledge of its significance; 
perhaps  only  in  nightmares  does  the  Sign  register. 
However,  once  the  Sign  becomes  "active"  the  same 
person will see it where first they did not, and many 
times thereafter in places unsuspected. Any who has 
seen the Yellow Sign is considered blessed and chosen.
Perhaps  working  subliminally,  the  Yellow  Sign  is 
a focus for evil and madness, and essentially a token 
of high worship for Hastur’s cults. Viewing the Yellow 
Sign causes 0/1D6 Sanity point loss. 

The  Sign  seems  to  swirl,  shimmer,  and  squirm, 
as if reaching for the onlooker. This effect takes but a 
moment; however, to the person affected it feels as if 
time has stood still. Those who lose Sanity points from 
seeing the Yellow Sign are cursed; the next time they 
sleep they should make another Sanity roll and if failed, 
they suffer terrible nightmares concerning the King in 
Yellow,  Carcosa,  and  Hastur  costing  a  further  point 
of Sanity. Each time thereafter the person sleeps they 
should  make  a  Sanity  roll  (0/1)  and  this  is  repeated 
each night until either they succeed in the Sanity roll or 
madness overtakes them.

Sanity Loss: With the Pallid Mask upon its face there is no Sanity 
loss; however in any other form, or with the mask removed, it 
costs 1D3/1D10 Sanity points to see the King in Yellow.

Nodens
And upon dolphins’ backs was balanced a vast crenelate shell 
wherein rode the grey and awful form of primal Nodens, 
Lord of the Great Abyss…Then hoary Nodens reached forth a 
wizened hand and helped Olney and his  
