 human world until the day comes when the Mythos 
is all that remains. A cultist’s ultimate aim is to relinquish all 
trace of human sanity and replace it with an understanding of 
the true nature of the universe. The loss of all sanity would in-
capacitate most people, leaving them unable to function in any 
meaningful way. However some cultists achieve this paradigm 
shift without being reduced to gibbering wrecks; even though 
they have zero Sanity points, they somehow transcend insanity 
and are still able to function and, in some cases, are capable of 
blending unnoticed with society at large.

Insane wizards, who fully embrace the Mythos, are likely to 
draw upon far greater power than a person who is simply cast-
ing a spell learned from a book. Liberated from human sanity 
and empowered by their understanding of the Mythos, these 
wizards are able to discover new aspects and deeper magics. In-
vestigators may also learn these deeper levels of understanding. 
Whenever an investigator is insane (temporary or indefinite) 
and successfully casts a spell, roll 1D100 and compare the result 
with the investigator’s Cthulhu Mythos skill. If the roll is equal 
to or below the investigator’s skill, new depths of magic have 
been  successfully  plumbed  and  the  option  to  use  the  deeper 
effect of the spell now presents itself. Once the deeper version 
of a spell is discovered, it remains available thereafter. Whether 
there are further deeper levels of the spell to be discovered in 
the future is a matter for the Keeper to decide.

All  spells  have  these  hidden  depths.  Deeper  versions  of 
many spells in this Grimoire are provided as examples. Keepers 
are advised to plan ahead when introducing spells that might 
fall into the hands of investigators and predetermine possible 
deeper magical effects of such spells rather than try to invent 
them on the fly.

Deeper Magic in Play
All Mythos entities and cultists with zero Sanity points will, 
if they know a certain spell, also know the deeper versions as 
listed in the Grimoire. Other enemies may know them at the 
Keeper’s discretion. The Keeper should not feel obliged to 
roll to determine whether the enemy learns a deeper version 
during play.

When an investigator discovers a deeper effect of a spell 
through play, the Keeper may decide how it differs from the 
standard version. The section on Spell Variations may prove 
useful. Essentially the deeper version should be an exciting 
(and more horrific) development of the spell rather than a 
mundane mechanical benefit (such as the spell costing fewer 
magic points). You may ask the player how the spell might 
be  altered;  remember  however  that  this  is  a  horror  game, 
and the deeper version may add aspects to the spell that are 
undesirable to the investigator. Greater magic should come 
with a greater price.

Spell Variations
There is no such thing as a definitive spell. The ones listed 
here are only a guide and starting point for the Keeper to 
draw upon. This is not a game in which the players can ex-
pect their characters to gain spells as a matter of course. The 
players  should  be  aware  that  any  spells  their  investigators 
gain may vary from the ones listed in this book. Part of the 
Keeper’s job is to act as intermediary between this Grimoire 
and the players.

242 

Call of CthulhuMaking Alterations to  
Listed Spells
A spell is made up of three parts: a cost, a description, and 
an effect. Cost and effect have a direct mechanical impact on 
the game that may include sanity loss, physical damage, loss 
of magic points, permanent change to characteristics, and 
so  forth. You  are  free  to  alter  these  things,  although  some 
careful consideration is required; placing a cheap, powerful 
spell into the hands of the players can have a dramatic effect 
upon  play.  Description,  on  the  other  hand,  is  simply  dra-
matic color and can be changed with relative ease.

Opposed POW Rolls