 handymen  to  gather  up  any  more 
papers.  While  there,  Roach  uncovered  first-hand 
evidence of past forgeries, as well as books and ma-
terials taken from the university without authority. 
Divided between thwarting Fallon and besmirching 
Leiter, Roach was unsure of what to do. He informed 
Fallon about Leiter’s gambling but kept evidence of 
forgeries to himself (hoping to profit from it some-
how later).

T  Roach knows the historical (and monetary) value of 
what is missing, but none of its true dangers. 
T  Roach has not seen the body and appears to believe 

the "heart attack" story without suspicion.
T  He is a firm non-believer in the supernatural.
T  Roach has already been through the papers at Leiter’s 
cottage near the campus once and has seen several 
things of note that he disregarded as irrelevant (see 
Leiter’s Cottage).

Roleplaying hooks

T  Roach  is  seeking  to  enhance  his  position  with  the 
university  and  may  consider  Fallon  a  potential 
barrier (after all, Fallon passed Roach over in favor 
of Leiter to handle the Hobbhouse papers). Roach 
will do whatever he can to discredit Fallon, perhaps 
seeking the investigators’ help to do so.

T  He will seek to besmirch Leiter’s name and reputa-

tion however possible.

370 

Call of CthulhuKeeper’s Notes: Roach is overeager to be of service to the 
University of which he is currently among its least favored 
faculty members, hoping finally for tenure as a reward for 
his part in this business. He is quietly terrified of Dean Fal-
lon, which keeps him in line, but is malign and ambitious in 
a small-hearted way and he can’t stop himself from gloating 
over Leiter’s death.

Roach is also insufferably curious about the matter now 
its scandalous dimensions have become known to him, and 
if he believes there lies some advantage to doing so, may try 
to tag along with the investigators or dog their tracks—pos-
sibly attempting to steal the papers (if he does not possess 
them) or blackmail the investigators (if he is able) in order 
to obtain the papers so that he can save the day himself.

If  chosen  as  the  culprit:  Roach  makes  for  a  logical 
suspect  in  the  papers’  theft—Leiter  repeatedly  usurped 
him and their rivalry was well known in the university, as 
was  the  open  scorn  Leiter  had  for  him.  Worse,  Leiter  was 
everything  Roach  is  not—charming,  urbane,  and  success-
ful  with  women.  Discrediting  Leiter  either  before  or  after 
his death, whether by stealing the papers as a premeditated 
theft or even as an act of opportunity postmortem, is not 
beyond  Roach  in  the  slightest.  Roach  has  (unknowingly) 
placed himself in the utmost danger. Well aware that if his 
guilt comes to light, his life and career are both effectively 
over, he will never admit to taking the papers nor give them 
up voluntarily without the most extreme coercion. 

Anthony Flinders, Misguided  
Undergraduate with an Unhealthy 
Obsession
A  handsome,  if  dourly  dressed  undergraduate,  looking 
every  inch  one  of  the  Miskatonic  University’s  more  well-
heeled  students  in  bearing  and  manner.  Behind  Anthony 
Flinders’  clipped,  upstate  New York  diction  and  well-bred 
air is the mind of a fanatic, and a misguided one. Anthony 
Flinders is a history student, one that tried repeatedly and 
unsuccessfully  to  attach  himself  to  Professor  Leiter’s  team 
and  the  categorizing 
of  the