 
Cultist B, seeing Harvey lying vulnerable in the yard, takes a reckless approach, jumping from the window rather than 
climbing. The Keeper decides the difficulty level of the climb roll would be Regular, but raises this to Hard difficulty level 
for a jump. The Keeper rolls a failure for the cultist’s Jump skill. Referring to Table III: Other Forms of Damage, the 
Keeper chooses 1D10 damage as it was an especially dangerous tactic; the Keeper describes how the cultist lands badly, 
falling short of Harvey. This action also cost the cultist 1 (1D3) additional movement action, so he has now used 2 of his 
movement actions. He uses his third movement action to advance 1 location towards Harvey, and his turn ends.

Cultist A’s turn:
Seeing his friend land badly in the yard outside, Cultist A decides to take a cautious approach (see Hazards, page 134) 
to the climb, spending an additional movement action to gain a bonus die on the Climb roll. He passes the Climb roll and 
uses his third movement action to advance forward 1 location.
At the end of round 1 the Keeper’s map looks like this:

window

fence

CultistA
CultistB

Harvey
Cultist C

Brian

Things do not look good for Harvey. The Keeper rules that Brian has escaped. Harvey is trapped in combat with the 

cultists. The cultists are likely to overpower Harvey and take him captive. 

149 

chapter 7: chases150 

Call of CthulhuAn Example from "The Call of Cthulhu"
In  Lovecraft’s  story,  Cthulhu  is  temporarily  thwarted  as 
Johansen  reverses  the  Alert  into  him.  Could  this  be  done 
with the Call of Cthulhu game rules? Let’s put Johansen in 
the role of an investigator, and decide the boat is Build 22 
and a MOV of 11 (as for a battleship). Cthulhu has Build 22 
and a MOV of 14 (swimming). Both Cthulhu and Johansen 
make their speed rolls and both roll an Extreme success. The 
boat has a MOV of 12, Cthulhu has a MOV of 15. Cthulhu 
acts first in the DEX order and has 4 movement actions each 
round. Johansen goes second with 1 movement action. Let’s 
give Johansen a Pilot (Boat) skill of 70%. Cthulhu’s Fighting 
skill is 100%.

Cthulhu’s turn: Cthulhu uses 2 movement actions to catch 
up  with  the  Alert. With  his  third  movement  action  he  at-
tempts to sink the ship. Johansen responds by fighting back, 
and  wishes  to  use  a  fighting  maneuver.  His  goal  is  to, “To 
drive Cthulhu back long enough for me to escape”.  

The Keeper rolls 34 for his Fighting skill—a Hard suc-
cess  for  Great  Cthulhu  as  he  attempts  to  wreck  the  ship. 
The  player  rolls  14—an  Extreme  success  for  Johansen’s 
Pilot  Ship  skill.  Johansen  wins.  The  Keeper  considers  the 
outcome; the aim was to set the enemy back to provide time 
for escape. The Keeper forgoes the damage roll, but rolls 3 
(1D3) for number of movement actions that Cthulhu loses. 
The Keeper describes how Cthulhu appears to burst, releas-
ing an unspeakable stench as of a thousand opened graves. 
Cthulhu is pushed back 1 location, and his final movement 
action this round and his first two next round are lost as a 
result of Johansen’s fighting maneuver.

Johansen’s turn: Johansen has only 1 movement action and 
applies  full-steam  ahead,  accelerating  forward  through  5 
locations with his