 and be able to burn some hit 
points to increase this number to, let’s say, 25. Beyond this, 
the caster will either require a reservoir of magic points or 
additional participants in the casting to donate magic points 
of their own. Some spells require POW to be spent. POW 
can be accrued by wizards through certain spells or items, 
such as an enchanted cane.

Sacrifices  and  other  morally  objectionable  rites  can  be 
added to spells for two purposes. First, to evoke the theme of 
horror. Second, to make the spells either difficult or a moral 
dilemma for the players. For example, will the players want 
to use a spell that can thwart the opposition if it requires a 
human sacrifice?

Call, Contact, and Summon Disambiguation
These  three  spell  types  have  much  in  common  and  it  is 
useful to understand the differences.

Call spells are immensely powerful rituals that bring an 
actual physical manifestation of a god before the caster. Call 
spells may be used by cults to bring forth their dark gods to 
accept ritual sacrifices or as an act of worship. The flip-side 
of the Call spell is the Dismiss spell, used to send the god 
back  from  whence  it  came.  Dismiss  spells  may  well  prove 
useful to the investigators.

Contact spells can be considered a request for commu-
nication—somewhat like an  esoteric telephone  call. When 
successfully used with Mythos monsters, it will draw one or 
more to the caster; however, they come of their own volition 
and  are  not  under  the  caster’s  control.  When  used  with  a 
deity or Great Old One, the spell opens communication but 
does  not  necessarily  bring  forth  a  physical  manifestation. 

245 

chapter 12: grimoireInvestigators might have cause to use a contact spell under 
certain  circumstances;  for  example,  to  contact  intelligent 
Mythos races to gain information or aid; however, to do so 
is perilous in the extreme.

Summon  spells  compel  a  monster  (not  a  god)  to  ap-
pear before the caster. Such monsters may be bound to the 
caster’s  will  to  do  his  or  her  bidding.  Thus  summon  (and 
bind) spells are used by wizards and cultists who wish use 
the power of some otherworldly horror. Investigators might 
use a summon spell, but they had best ensure they can bind 
what they summon!

The Grimoire
This section lists spells alphabetically with a couple of ex-
ceptions.  There  are  three  major  classes  of  spells:  Call  and 
Dismiss  Spells,  Contact  Spells,  and  Enchantment  Spells, 
which define and group the spells that follow.

Apportion Ka
Cost: 10 magic points, 5 POW and 2D10 Sanity points per 
organ
Casting time: 1 day per organ

A portion of the caster’s life essence, or "ka," is transferred 
into one of his or her vital organs. The enchanted organ is 
then removed from the caster’s body, to be hidden away for 
safekeeping and providing the wizard with a form of invul-
nerability—as  long  as  the  enchanted  organ  remains  safely 
hidden the wizard will not suffer particular attacks and may 
even be invulnerable to death.

This spell was first used by followers of the Dark Pha-
raoh,  Nephren-Ka,  who  would  remove  a  vital  organ,  such 
as the heart or liver, and lock them away in safe places. This 
would make the caster virtually impossible to kill, if not for 
the spell’s one weakness. The brain is the seat of the spell’s 
power and, as such, could not be removed. If the brain was 
destroyed, the other organs would lose their magical prop-
erties and the caster would die.

Having  one’s  own  insides  removed