 find  themselves 
unharmed and the situation changed.

Harvey is fleeing through underground tunnels, pur-
sued by ghouls. He sees an abyss before him. Perhaps 
he can leap across to the other side. He fails his Jump 
roll. There is really nothing he can do to push this roll. 
The  Keeper  could  simply  describe  Harvey  falling  to 
his  death,  which  would  end  the  game  for  Harvey’s 
player.  Alternatively,  the  Keeper  could  describe  how 
Harvey falls and lands in an underground river, later 
to  be  washed  up,  injured  and  lost  at  an  unknown 
location, his flashlight and equipment lost. The first 
outcome  will  bring  the  game  to  a  sudden  end  and, 
while this may be acceptable, the second allows for the 
game to continue.

Failed Dice Rolls and Sudden Endings
Where  possible  try  to  avoid  an  outcome  that  will  end  the 
game (unless you wish to, of course). Try to be creative and 
describe an outcome that allows for play to proceed, but not 
in the way the players intended. Rather than sudden death, 
consider other options such as:

More Than One Player Rolling Dice 
for a Skill Roll?
In some circumstances two or more characters may work 
together towards the same goal. The decision of how many 
investigators may be involved in a particular situation is up 
to the Keeper. 

86 

Call of Cthulhu87 

chapter 5: game systemExamples include:
i  Researching a single book: one person at a time may 

read the book.

i  Picking a lock: one person may attempt to pick the 

lock, rolling their Locksmith skill.

i  Delivering  First  Aid:  two  people  may  assist  each 
other, both rolling their First Aid skill. A success is 
granted if either of them succeeds. 

i  Carrying  a  body:  the  Keeper  should  use  the  SIZ 
characteristic of the body to set the difficulty level. 
Up to four people, each taking one limb, could assist 
one another in carrying a body, in which case a roll 
would only be required if the body were exception-
ally heavy (see Physical Human Limits for guidance 
on combining physical characteristics).

i  Library  Use  in  a  public  library:  all  investigators  in 
the library may conduct research and attempt a skill 
roll. Only one successful roll is required.

i  Spotting a clue: everyone who is in the right posi-
tion to view whatever is in question may roll Spot 
Hidden. Only one successful roll is required.
i  Determining if someone is withholding information: 
everyone who is able to observe the subject may roll 
Psychology. Only one successful roll is required.
i  Sneaking past a guard: Everyone needs to roll their 
Stealth  skill;  if  one  person  fails,  the  guard  will  be 
alerted to their presence.

The examples above are intended only as guidelines. For 
tasks in which the number of participants is limited, further 
attempts may be made by other investigators, but such at-
tempts will take additional time.

It may not be apparent in some situations whether an-
other skill roll should be allowed or if a player is required to 
push a skill roll; the Keeper must decide. In general, when an 
investigator is attempting the same goal a second time, this 
requires a pushed roll.

The  Keeper  allows  two  investigators  to  administer 
First Aid to a fallen comrade. Each player rolls dice; 
if    both  fail  the  skill  roll,  they  may  either  continue 
with their efforts (pushing the roll) or they can move 
aside and allow other investigators to attempt it (up 
to two at a time). Each attempt to administer first aid 
takes time, and this may be crucial if the patient is at 
death’s door.

Another example: The players wish to interrogate 
a  cultist,  and 