 Tindalos is covered with a sort of bluish pus (Ichor). 
When  a  victim  is  struck  by  a  Fighting  attack,  a  gout  of  this 
mucoid  stuff  is  smeared  over  him  or  her.  This  pus-like  stuff 
is alive and active; doing 2D6 damage to the target, and new 
damage is done in the same amount for each round that the 
ichor  remains  on  the  victim’s  body.  The  ichor  can  be  wiped 
off with a rag or towel with a DEX roll. It could also be rinsed 
off with water or some other agent. Fire would kill the ichor, 
though 1D6 hit points would be lost to burns from the flame.
Tongue: Once per round, with a successful tongue attack, a deep 
penetrating  (though  bloodless  and  painless)  hole  is  formed. 
The  victim  takes  no  physical  damage,  despite  the  peculiar 
wound, but loses 3D6 POW permanently.

Fighting 90% (45/18), damage 1D6 + damage bonus + ichor (2d6 

damage per round, ongoing until removed) 

Tongue 90% (45/18), damage 3D6 POW drained per round
Dodge 26% (13/5)
Armor:  2-point  hide;  regenerates  4  hit  points  per  round,  unless 
on 0 hit points; mundane weapons have no effect on a hound, 
though enchanted weapons and spells do full damage.

Sanity Loss: 1D3/1D20 Sanity points to see a hound of Tindalos.

The twisting, curving, corkscrew towers of the city of 
Tindalos  are  now  all  but  forgotten.  Ancient  writings 
describe  the  city  as  existing  on  Earth,  although  it  is 
also  said  that  Great  Tindalosi  was  (and  perhaps  still 
is) sited far out in the galaxy near to an abyssal void 
(perhaps a black hole?). Whispered rumors tell of foul 
magicks and unnatural science that brought about the 
conception of the hounds of Tindalos and the destruc-
tion of those who created them.

298 

Call of Cthulhuaverages 
145  
50 
205 
65  
75  
105 

rolls
(5D6+12 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)
(5D6+12 ×5)
(3D6+3 ×5)
(1D6+12 ×5)
(6D6 ×5)

HUNTING HORRORS, Great viperine flyers
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
HP: 25
Average Damage Bonus: 3D6
Average Build: 4
Average Magic Points: 21
Move: 7 / 11 flying

Hunting Horror

Hunting Horror
And in the air about him were great viperine creatures, which 
had curiously distorted heads, and grotesquely great clawed 
appendages, supporting themselves with ease by the aid of 
black rubbery wings of singularly monstrous dimensions.

—August Derleth, The Lurker at the Threshold

Resembling  enormous  ropy  black  serpents  or  worms 
possessing  bat-like  or  umbrella-like  wings,  the  form  of  a 
hunting  horror  continually  shifts  and  changes,  twitching 
and writhing, so it is hard to look at them. They may have 
only a single large wing rather than two. They speak in great 
harsh voices. A hunting horror’s length averages forty feet.

These beings are dispelled by daylight. A strong enough 
burst of light (from a nuclear reaction, perhaps) could sear 
one  to  dust.  Hunting  horrors  move  swiftly