 statuettes,  letters,  books  or  even  clay 
tablets.  Such  items,  if  prepared  with  care,  can  lend  drama 
and atmosphere to a game. However, they can also end up 
looking silly if they are poorly presented. Some players can-
not believe that a polystyrene block is anything other than a 
polystyrene block; even through the Keeper has spent hours 
carving it to resemble the “Black Obelisk of Thantos”! The 
best way to decide if props will work with your group is to 
talk about it and agree whether you all feel they are worth 
the time and effort required.

19 

chapter 1: introductionHoward Philips  
Lovecraft 

n  a  46-year  lifetime,  H.P.  Lovecraft  (HPL) 
wrote or collaborated on more than 65 stories, 
penned  dozens  of  articles  and  essays,  hun-
dreds of poems, and wrote perhaps as many as 
100,000  letters.  Despite  never  finding  critical 
and  commercial  success  in  his  lifetime,  Lovecraft’s  legacy 
and contribution to modern horror story telling cannot be 
overstated. His works now reach millions around the world 
and his creations, particularly Cthulhu and the Necronom-
icon, have become well-known horror icons for a legion of 
devoted  fans.  Today,  Lovecraft  is  recognized  as  making  a 
significant contribution to American literature and as being 
one of the foremost horror writers of the Twentieth Century.

His Life and the Creation of 
the Cthulhu Mythos
Although  chronic  nervous  disorders  prevented  Lovecraft 
from  regular  attendance  at  school,  he  was  a  precocious 
child and an avid reader. As his father was institutionalized 
when Lovecraft was only three, he and his mother moved 
into  the  house  owned  by  his  maternal  grandfather.  It 
was in the library of Grandfather Whipple that Lovecraft 
first  discovered  the  Arabian  Nights,  the  myths  of  Greece 
and  Rome,  and  Edgar Alan  Poe.  He  wrote  his  first  story, 
"The Little Glass Bottle", at the age of six, about the time 
he  had  his  first  dreams  about  the  terrible,  faceless  night-
gaunts  (throughout  his  life  he  had  vivid  dreams).  It  was 
also through this library that Lovecraft developed a taste 
for  Georgian  thought  and  literature  that  would  remain 
with  him  throughout  his  life.  Lovecraft,  who  would  later 
describe  himself  as  a  “mechanist  materialist,”  was  also 
attracted  to  the  sciences.  In  1899  he  began  publishing  a 
small journal called the Scientific Gazette, followed shortly 
thereafter by the Rhode Island Journal of Astronomy. These 
small, hectographed publications were sold door to door 
by  a  bicycle-mounted  HPL.  At  age  thirteen,  Lovecraft’s 
beloved  grandfather  died.  His  father  had  already  passed 
away,  succumbing  to  his  illness  in  1898,  still  confined  to 
Butler Hospital. A series of business failures had depleted 
the  Whipple  family  fortune,  forcing  Lovecraft’s  mother 
and  aunts  to  sell  the  family  home  and  move  to  smaller 
quarters. This was a great blow to Lovecraft.

Another  attack  of  nerves  led  to  his  withdrawal  from 
high school in 1905 and again in 1908. Lovecraft, two and 
a half years short of graduation, never returned. Lovecraft 
never held a job, supporting himself on the dwindling fam-
ily fortune and by what little he could earn as a ghostwriter