 a  hazard.  If  he  fails  his  DEX  roll  to  weave 
through the crowd, the Keeper rules that Harvey will 
be  slowed  for  1D3  movement  actions.  Harvey  would 
only  take  damage  if  he  fumbled  the  roll;  perhaps  his 
desperate pushing would annoy someone so much they 
punch  him.  However,  thinking  fast,  Harvey  pulls  his 
pistol and fires into the air. The Keeper asks for a Luck 
roll,  which  Harvey  fails.  The  Keeper  decides  that  the 
crowd scatters and there is no longer a hazard. Howev-
er a nearby police officer is now after Harvey too!

Players  may  also  take  equally  creative  approaches  to 

negotiating hazards. 

Splitting Up
Characters in a chase may choose to take different routes. If 
so, you now have an additional chase to track. 

Monsters in a Chase
The majority of monsters and animals act the same way as 
people in a chase. Some have abilities that may exempt them 
from certain skill rolls; for example, those that fly would not 
need to make Jump or Climb rolls. 

Many monsters, animals, and non-player characters will 
lack listed values for the various skills that might be called 
upon in a chase (Jump, Swim, Drive Auto, etc.) In such cases 
the Keeper should use the following as a guide:

G  Where the monster or non-player character has an 
implied aptitude, use their DEX in place of the skill.
G  Where the monster or non-player character has an 
implied  ineptitude,  use  one-fifth  of  their  DEX  in 
place of the skill (or simply rule the attempt to be an 
automatic failure).

G  Where  the  monster  or  non-player  character  has 
neither implied aptitude nor ineptitude, use half of 
their DEX in place of the skill.

If  other  skills  are  required,  the  Keeper  might  use  a 
similar approach, using what he or she feels to be the most 
appropriate characteristic. For example, should you wish to 
determine the Spot Hidden skill of a particular monster (for 
whom there is no listed Spot Hidden skill), INT might be 
judged most appropriate; use either its full INT, half of its 
INT  or  one-fifth  of  its  INT  depending  on  how  perceptive 
you feel the monster to be.

"Somebody! Help me!"

Gnoph-keh  are  somewhat  like  giant  polar  bears  and 
so would probably be great swimmers—allow them a 
Swim skill equal to their DEX. You may feel that ghouls 
would make poor swimmers, in which case you might 
allow them a Swim skill equal to one-fifth of their DEX.

Fleeing the Scene
You may have a scene in which you wish to gauge how far 
the investigators manage to flee in a limited time. The chase 
rules can be used for this, counting the number of locations 
moved within a specified number of rounds. 

Vehicular Collisions
When a skill roll to negotiate a hazard is failed, the Keeper 
must consider the cause and the likely damage, and rate it 
against the left-hand column on Table VI: Vehicular Colli-
sions. If unsure, simply use the defaults of “minor incident” 
for  a  Regular  difficulty  level  hazard,  “moderate  incident” 
for  a  Hard  difficulty  level  hazard,  or “severe  incident”  for 
Extreme difficulty level hazards. 

The damage should also be rolled for each occupant of 
a vehicle involved in a collision, substituting “hit points” in 
place of “build”. Thus, a car that is in a moderate incident 
suffers  1D6  build  damage  and  each  occupant  of  the  car 
suffers 1D6 hit points of damage.

Most collisions should also result in a