 investigation for his 
own gain. Perhaps he will warn Harvey’s enemies (for 
a reward) or publish the story himself, thus exposing 
Harvey’s careful work.

Training
Given  enough  money,  someone  will  teach  anything.  The 
existence of training makes game sense only in campaigns, 
where the same investigators meet regularly to engage in an 
ongoing mystery.

One should not go to school and learn more than 1D10 
points in a skill per four months of game time without good 
reason. The Keeper decides if multiple courses can be taken 
and how to judge if the investigator’s class participation is 
satisfactory. An experience check comes automatically upon 
successfully completing a segment of training; however too 
many  adventures  in  a  semester  will  invalidate  classroom 
work or practice for that term.

At  the  Keeper’s  option,  the  learning  rate  for  a  skill 
might be increased or the learning interval shortened if the 
investigator  has  access  to  a  renowned  teacher.  Such  access 
should come as a reward for an outstanding deed, or after 
great perseverance, since many compete for the favor of the 
famous.

Player  and  Keeper  may  arrange  self-study  of  any  aca-
demic subject. The investigator must study for four months, 
after  which  the  player  rolls  as  if  for  a  skill  check  (tick)  in 
that skill (attempting to roll above their current skill level on 
1D100 and gaining 1D10 skill points if successful).

Combat  skill  specialisms,  such  as  Sword,  are  so  little 
used that schools and personal trainers represent the only 
way to learn.

Aging
There  are  various  modifiers  applied  during  investigator 
creation to reflect the investigator’s age. In the rare instances 
that  an  investigator  ages  significantly  in  play,  modifiers 
should be applied to reflect the change in age. This is unlike-
ly to be a factor in many games, but may come in to play in a 
campaign, or when jumping decades and picking up an in-
vestigator’s story later in life. Aging may also occur suddenly 
as a result of a spell or magical gate; such aging may inflict 
the negative physical effects without the gain in education.
The  aging  effects  are  cumulative,  so  if  ageing  two  de-
cades  from  thirties  to  fifties,  apply  modifiers  for  turning 
both forty and fifty.

Turning 20: Make an improvement check for EDU. Add 5 
points among STR and SIZ.

Turning 40: Make an improvement check for EDU. Deduct 
5 points among STR, CON or DEX, and reduce APP by 5. 
Reduce MOV by 1.

Turning 50: Make an improvement check for EDU. Deduct 
5 points among STR, CON or DEX, and reduce APP by 5. 
Reduce MOV by 1.

Turning 60: Make an improvement check for EDU. Deduct 
10 points among STR, CON or DEX, and reduce APP by 5. 
Reduce MOV by 1.

Turning 70: Deduct 20 points among STR, CON or DEX, 
and reduce APP by 5. Reduce MOV by 1.

Turning 80: Deduct 40 points among STR, CON or DEX, 
and reduce APP by 5. Reduce MOV by 1.

Each  decade  thereafter:  Deduct  80  points  among  STR, 
CON or DEX. Reduce MOV by 1.

Harvey  plays  a  few  1920s  stories,  after  which  the 
Keeper wishes to play a scenario set in the 1930s. This 
finds Harvey 10 years older (now aged 52) and so the 
aging effects are applied. A dice roll of 98 grants Harvey 
1D10 improvement to his EDU, adding 9 points for an 
EDU  of  93.  The  player  then 