  be  certain  of  the  Keeper’s  intentions.  Obviously,  the 
Keeper cannot make scenarios infinitely deep and complex, 
so must either break off play when the investigators get too 
deep,  or  improvise.  If  breaking  off  from  play,  this  should 
only  be  until  the  Keeper  manages  to  extend  the  scenario 
further and give more depth to the mysteries.

Using Lovecraftian Themes
The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the 
oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown.

—H.P.Lovecraft, Supernatural Horror in Literature

Key themes can be recognized throughout Lovecraft’s writ-
ing, either lurking underneath the text or central to the plot. 
Utilizing these themes when designing scenarios and run-
ning games of Call of Cthulhu can help imbue your games 
with an undercurrent of Lovecraftian horror.

Fear…of the Alien, the Outsider, of 
Knowledge
A central tenet presented in nearly all of Lovecraft’s fiction 
is fear of the unknown. Anything that comes from outside 
of  your  normal  reality,  your  day-to-day  existence,  is  to  be 
feared. Such things have a way of invading your space, your 
life,  and  ultimately  destroying  your  very  personality  and 
way of life. Man is imprisoned and isolated. Truth lies in the 
dark,  secret  places  of  the  world;  in  ancient  woods,  hollow 
hills,  and  remote  locales.  Every  stranger  could  be  hiding 
something, plotting your demise, or wanting something of 
yours. Investigators find themselves cut off from civilization 
(no phones, ho help, no safety) with no one who will come 
to their aid. They are the “outsiders”.

Knowledge  causes  pain,  sorrow,  and  death.  Books  of 
secrets  and  magic  are  to  be  feared;  they  change  how  you 
perceive the world around you, they question your faith, and 
obliterate your very soul. Better they are destroyed or kept 
hidden lest some fool messes with things best left sleeping.

The  realization  that  something  has  affected  you,  be  it 
alien  implants,  false  memories,  or  dark  truths,  can  make 
for  highly  immersive  and  scary  stories.  The  investigators 

214 

Call of Cthulhu215 

chapter 10: playing the gameand  their  players  may  not  know  these  secrets  as  the  game 
starts—part of the horror (and fun) comes from unraveling 
the mystery and facing up to the big revelation. 

Suggested  reading:  The  Case  of  Charles  Dexter  Ward,  The 
Call of Cthulhu. 

Corruption…of the Body, the Mind, the 
World
A pervading sense of corruption, in mind and body. Many of 
Lovecraft’s stories carry a sense of decay in their surroundings 
and settings, as well as in the mental and physical decay of 
the protagonists. The slow, but inevitable creep of corruption 
can be a useful backdrop to a scenario to inspire a theme of 
foreboding and dread. Keepers can also take this theme and 
make it personal; for example, the slow developing and fright-
ening metamorphosis of an investigator into a deep one (the 
Innsmouth taint) or into a ghoul. Alterations in appearance 
and habits over time may provoke Sanity point loss for the 
investigator  as  well  as  those  around  him  or  her.  The  inves-
tigators in question may not be aware of what is happening, 
perhaps thinking the changes are caused by the slow creep of 
a dreadful disease or the results of insanity and delusion.

Family  bloodlines  carry  “memories”  and  taints.  De-
scendants cannot escape the stain of evil crimes committed 
by  their  forebears