 his remains ooze into the ground and 
he regenerates somewhere far within the earth.

Spells: Cloud Memory, all Contact Deity spells, Create Gate, Sum-

mon/Bind Chthonian, Summon/Bind Ghoul.
Sanity Loss: 1D6/1D20 Sanity points to see Eihort.

Ghatanothoa

Nothing I could say could even adumbrate the loathsome, 
unholy, non-human, extra-galactic horror and hatefulness 
and unutterable evil of that forbidden spawn of  
black chaos and illimitable night.

— H.P. Lovecraft and Hazel Heald, Out of the Eons

Ghatanothoa  is  known  to  be  exceedingly  horrible,  with 
myriad  tentacles,  maws,  and  sensory  organs,  with  a  defi-
nite  dreadful  outline.  In  ancient  Mu,  Ghatanothoa  dwelt 
in  a  burrow  beneath  a  city  originally  built  by  Fungi  from 
Yuggoth, though generally inhabited by primeval humans. 
The burrow was surmounted by a truncated volcanic cone. 
When Mu sank, the god’s home was overlaid by the waves 
and  he  was  no  longer  free.  Sometimes  tectonic  upheavals 
force  Ghatanothoa’s  dwelling  place  to  the  surface,  as  if  in 
horrific  preparation  for  that  awful  day  when  it  will  rise, 
along  with  R’lyeh,  to  sink  no  more.  Investigators  might 
beware  any  island  between  New  Zealand  and  Chile  that 
matches the description of Ghatanothoa’s abode.

Cult

Ghatanothoa  is  sometimes  tied  to  lloigor.  At  present,  no 
human  cultists  are  known  for  him.  In  ancient  times,  the 
priests of Mu unwillingly offered periodic human sacrifices 
to  Ghatanothoa,  lest  he  rise  from  his  extinct  volcano  and 

318 

Call of CthulhuGhatanothoa

work  greater  carnage.  Certain  fungi  from  Yuggoth  also 
served Ghatanothoa in these ancient times.

SIZ 700 

CON 400 

GHATANOTHOA, Lord of the Volcano
STR 450 
POW 175  HP 110
Damage Bonus: +13D6
Build: 14
Magic Points: 35
Move: 9

DEX 40 

INT 100

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1
Curse  of  Ghatanothoa:  Anyone  in  visual  proximity  to  a  perfect 
image of Ghatanothoa receives this curse. Each round that the 
image  of  Ghatanothoa  is  present,  the  human  witnesses  must 
attempt CON rolls. Upon failure, the investigator loses 3D10 
DEX  as  muscles  stiffen  and  creeping  paralysis  begins.  If  an 
investigator’s DEX is brought to zero, complete immobilization 
occurs, a petrifaction process normally irreversible.

In a few minutes, the victim’s flesh and sinews rapidly harden to 
the consistency of leather and bone. The brain and other inter-
nal organs remain fresh and alive in this hard, immobile case, 
aware yet unbearably imprisoned. Only the destruction of the 
brain can end the victim’s suffering. The blind, numb victim 
loses  1D6  Sanity  points  per  day  until  reaching  permanent 
madness or the forgiving release of death.

Note:  When  he  is  at  less  than  0  hit  points,  the  Great  Old  One’s 
curse is inoperative. Once regenerating to at least +1 hit point, 
