 be  clear  about  what  they  want  to 
achieve by stating a goal before rolling any dice. If the goal 
isn’t  acceptable,  the  Keeper  should  help  the  player  to  re-
phrase it. The goal should define the player’s objective clear-
ly and concisely. For advice on setting goals see Chapter 10: 
Playing the Game.

Harvey Walters wants to force a door open. The Keeper 
might assume that he is simply bashing the door and 
creating a loud noise in the process. If Harvey wants 
to open the door quietly, he needs to state this as his 
goal. Thus ‘break the door down’ and ‘lever the door 
open quietly’ are two different goals, and the Keeper 
will consider the complexity of the goal when setting 
a difficulty level.

Skill Roll: Determining the Difficulty 
Level
The  Keeper  determines  the  difficulty  level  for  skill  rolls. 
There are three levels of difficulty in Call of Cthulhu: Regu-
lar, Hard, and Extreme. 

Regular difficulty level: an average example of what would 
challenge a competent person. The player needs to roll equal 
to or below their full skill or characteristic in order to suc-
ceed. This should be used in the vast majority of cases.

Hard difficulty level: this task would challenge a profession-
al. The player needs to roll equal to or below a half of their 
skill or characteristic in order to succeed. This should only 
be used occasionally.

Extreme  difficulty  level:  this  task  would  challenge  an  ex-
pert;  it  is  on  the  border  of  what  is  humanly  possible.  The 

82 

Call of Cthulhuplayer needs to roll equal to or below a fifth of their skill or 
characteristic in order to succeed. This should be reserved 
for extreme situations.

If you, as Keeper, feel that the task is easy then don’t ask 

for a dice roll. Save dice rolls for challenging situations.

If the investigator is facing a living being, the difficulty 
level should be set according to the complementary skill or 
characteristic belonging to that being (human or otherwise). 
It is up to the Keeper to decide which skill or characteristic 
would be used by the opponent to counter the investigator’s 
actions—examples can be found with each skill entry (see 
Chapter 4: Skills).

i  If the opponent’s skill or characteristic is below 50, 

the difficulty level is Regular.

i  If the opponent’s skill or characteristic is equal to or 

above 50, the difficulty level is Hard. 

i  If the opponent’s skill or characteristic is equal to or 

above 90, the difficulty level is Extreme. 

Harvey Walters is trying to persuade the librarian to 
allow him access to the library on a Sunday, when the 
library  is  normally  closed.  The  Keeper  considers  the 
librarian’s  Persuade  and  Psychology  skills  (the  two 
skills which are used to oppose Persuade). Neither of 
these is above 50% and so the difficulty level is Regu-
lar, requiring Harvey’s player to roll equal to or below 
Harvey’s full Persuade skill in order to succeed. 

 Harvey failed to persuade the librarian to open 
up, so he has decided to force open the back door of 
the library. Harvey has a STR of 20. The library door 
is made of thick oak, with a stout iron lock, and the 
Keeper judges it to be particularly strong. The difficul-
ty level is thus set to Hard, requiring Harvey to roll 10 
or below (half Harvey’s STR).

In the case of non-living opponents, the Keeper must act 
as judge, weighing up the pertinent factors. A standard chal-
lenge  would  be  of  Regular  difficulty.  Where  the  challenge 
is clearly beyond Regular difficulty, the Keeper may use the 
Hard difficulty level. If the challenge is exceptionally diffi-
cult but still within the bounds of what is humanly possible, 
the Keeper should use the Extreme difficulty level. 

Wherever possible, the situation should be