"yellowjackets, not torpedoes," which is to say leg-breakers 
collec-
and  debt 
tors—not  assassins, 
they  are  not 
but 
above 
if 
killing 
threatened  or  or-
dered to do so. They 
are  in  Arkham  be-
cause  Charles  Leiter 
owed  a  great  deal  of 
money to their boss-
es  in  Atlantic  City 
and  Leiter’s  "death" 
was  more  than  sus-
picious  enough  to 
make  them  believe 
something  isn’t  on 
level  about  it. 
the 
They 
correct 
are 
about a cover-up but 
completely  in  error  as  to  why.  They  start  on  their  hunt  a 
few days before the investigators and so far their inquiries 
have  included  poking  around  Arkham’s  seedier  side  and 
shaking down their one decent lead, Lucy Stone. They have 
her  under  observation,  both  personally  (now  and  then) 
and through informants at the speakeasy where she works, 
and they will take a close interest in anybody who takes an 
interest in her—like the investigators.

Oaks and Shaunassy

Facts and Clues

T  The Atlantic City hoods are largely ignorant of the 
truth;  they  think  Leiter’s  alive  and  are  looking  for 
him. Anything short of showing them Leiter’s body 
stands  little  chance  of  convincing  them  that  he  is 
genuinely  dead,  and  even  this  they  may  disbelieve 
given the poor state of the corpse.  They are strongly 
inclined to disbelieve in Leiter’s death, so any rolls to 
appease them are Extreme.

T  They  are  tasked  with  the  collection  of  a  gambling 
debt—$11,000  dollars  to  be  precise—and  if  they 
discover the Witch Trial Papers’ existence and worth, 
the Keeper may decide that they will go after them 
(knowing that they have value is enough—they will 
leave the rest to their bosses). 

374 

Call of CthulhuT  They will resort to threats and casual violence as a 
matter of course, but stay shy of public displays that 
will  attract  the  attention  of  the  law.  They  will  not 
engage in willful murder unless attacked themselves. 
They  are  armed  with  knuckledusters,  straight  ra-
zors, and heavy-caliber pistols, and will try to isolate 
a target rather than risk getting outnumbered.

Roleplaying hooks

T  Desirous to collect on Leiter’s debt.
T  Aggressively curious about everything and everyone.
T  Will want concrete proof of Leiter’s death.
Keeper’s Note: These two are a deliberate spoiling factor 
for the scenario; a rival to the investigators who can either 
be played as a serious threat or just as a sideline encounter 
as the Keeper wishes. They can also be used to provide some 
physical action (i.e. a stand-up fight) to your game as well. 
They can also serve both as unlikely allies for the investiga-
tors or as fodder for the real villain (or the Horror from the 
Pages) if they get too close to the truth.

A  good  way  of  introducing  the  hoods  is  to  have  them 
pay a visit to Leiter’s cottage when the investigators are there 
searching  for  clues.  Depending  on  the  investigators’  reac-
tions, the duo may play it cool and simply say that they want 
Leiter and the money owed, or they may be more direct, say-
ing that all they want is the money and they don't care where 
it comes from—if they can’t find Leiter, the investigators are 
just as good a source for the cash (being in Leiter’s home and 
inheriting