.  Where  the  challenge 
is clearly beyond Regular difficulty, the Keeper may use the 
Hard difficulty level. If the challenge is exceptionally diffi-
cult but still within the bounds of what is humanly possible, 
the Keeper should use the Extreme difficulty level. 

Wherever possible, the situation should be framed in such 
a way that the dice are being rolled by the player. Players won’t 
get much fun out of watching the Keeper roll the dice every 
time. If the investigator is attempting to use their Stealth skill 
to  furtively  follow  a  non-player  character,  the  player  would 
roll the dice and the Keeper would use the non-player charac-
ter’s Spot Hidden skill to set the difficulty level. If the situation 
were reversed and the non-player character were following the 
investigator, the player would roll the dice against their Spot 
Hidden skill to see if the tail is spotted, but this time Keeper 
would  use  the  non-player  character’s  Stealth  skill  to  set  the 
difficulty level. Remember, the players should be rolling the 
dice more often than the Keeper.

"Sorry, the library is closed!"

See Chapter 10: Playing the Game for more advice on 

setting difficulty levels.

Remember, only roll the 
dice if it’s a moment 
of tension. Dice rolls 
are not needed when 
characters undertake 
mundane and everyday 
tasks.

Rolling the 
Dice: Success 
or Failure
There  are  two  possible 
outcomes  of  a  roll: 
success or failure. The 
various  divisions  of 
skill  (fifth,  half,  full)  do 
not equate with graduations of success. The player states a goal 
and then rolls the dice. If the dice roll is equal to or below the 
required number, the goal is fully achieved. If the dice roll is 
below a half or a fifth of the specified skill, the goal will not 
necessarily  be  performed  to  a  higher  standard.  Any  further 
interpretation of the roll is at the discretion of the Keeper.

Success
If the player has rolled equal to or under the target set by the 
Keeper, their investigator has achieved the goal that was set 
and agreed before the roll. The player should be encouraged 
to participate in describing the outcome. This can include 
aspects of the story beyond his or her investigator, such as 
the actions of non-player characters and the environment; 
however, such things may be moderated by the Keeper. Thus 
both player and Keeper are involved in describing the out-
come of a successful roll.

83 

chapter 5: game systemHarvey  drives  his  car  directly  at  a  shambling  hu-
man-like  monster  with  the  goal  of  hitting  it.  The 
Keeper declares that the difficulty level to hit it will be 
hard (given it has a Dodge skill of 60). The player rolls 
less than half of her investigator’s Drive Auto skill—a 
success! The player describes the scene...

“I  push  down  the  accelerator  and  ram  into  the 
shambling thing, knocking it flying. I brake hard, spin 
the  car  to  a  halt  and  jump  out,  leaving  the  engine 
running. I draw my pistol and fire three shots into the 
monster’s corpse.”

There’s no need to take issue with the player’s de-
scription of Harvey’s cool driving technique—it is just 
description—but  did  he  really  kill  the  monster? The 
Keeper  checks  the  monster’s  hit  points  and  considers 
that it would take more than this to kill it. The play-
er’s goal was  to hit the monster with the car (which 
she did), not to kill it. The Keeper jumps in, slightly 
altering what the player has said...

“Great, but when you get out of your car and look 
around there’s no sign of a body; the thing you hit with 
your car is nowhere to be seen.”

Alternatively,  the  Keeper  (referring  to  Other 
Forms of Damage on page