 should be partial, being based on that 
particular investigator’s point of view—an individual’s per-
ception of a particular person can conflict with another’s, or 
be wholly mistaken.

Say  what  they  know,  not  how  they  feel:  Rather  than  dic-
tating  how  an  investigator  feels  in  their  backstory,  tell  the 
player  the “facts”  as  their  investigator  perceives  them,  and 
let the player decide what is true and how they feel about it. 

In place of, “You bear a grudge against Trevor who stole 
your girlfriend,” simply write the facts as that investi-
gator understands them, “Trevor stole the affections of 
your girlfriend”. It’s then up to the player to decide how 
his or her investigator feels about losing his girlfriend 
and what effect it has upon his relationship with Trevor.

Write  reciprocal  backstory  information:  If  you  write  a 
statement  for  one  investigator  regarding  another,  be  sure 
to  write  a  reciprocal  statement  on  the  other  investigator’s 
sheet. As already stated, different investigators may perceive 
different versions of the same truth. 

If one investigator (Brian) is told, “Trevor stole the af-
fections of your girlfriend”, it is important that Trevor’s 
player also be told about this. This might take a slightly 
conflicting form: “You’re friends with Suzie. She used 
to go out with Brian until she got bored with him”.

Approving the Investigators
Take a few minutes to look over the investigator sheets. En-
sure the players have completed their investigators correctly 
(have skill points all been spent?) Then note down a few de-
tails about each investigator along with names, occupations, 
APP, Credit Rating, and any key aspects of their backstory 
that catch your attention. 

Key information can be summarized in a reference chart, 

using the format at the bottom of the page.

Avoid being unnecessarily harsh when reviewing inves-
tigators;  remember  that  regardless  of  how  skilled  or  well-
armed an investigator may appear to be, the monsters of the 
Cthulhu Mythos will always be more powerful.

Name

Profession APP

Todd Rahman

Private Eye

Pat Swift

Ex-Athlete

65

75

Credit 
Rating

30

20

Backstory

Notes

Buddhist.
Runs Rockwell Investigations in NYC.

Health-food fanatic.
Proud of his sporting trophies.
Worships the New York Yankees.
Todd Rahman saved his life and he now works for Todd.

Police issue handgun.

Loves his elderly mother.

188 

Call of CthulhuCreating New Occupations
If none of the published list of professions fit your require-
ments when creating investigators, or if you simply prefer, 
just choose any combination of eight skills that best fit the 
investigator’s occupation. Don’t forget to determine a range 
for Credit Rating. This is a quick and easy method, allowing 
for spontaneity and speed.

Linking Investigators When Playing 
Subsequent Scenarios
The advice offered above for tying characters to the scenario 
may work well enough for their first adventure, however this 
can become labored if overused. If you are running unre-
lated  scenarios  with  the  same  investigators,  a  good  reason 
is  required  for  them  to  be  repeatedly  involved  in  foiling 
the  plots  of  the  Mythos.  A  deceased  uncle  is  all  very  well 
for one plotline, but what about next time? Just how many 
murdered relatives can one investigator have?  

Many  scenarios  are  conceived  and  written  as  an  inter-
esting  story,  with  the  investigators  added  on  afterwards. 
Some form of motivation must be chosen as a reason for the 
investigators to connect with the plot. 
Common motivations include:
G  Employment:  The  investigators  are  professionals 

available for hire.

G  A  social  connection:  A  friend  or  member  of  an