 of a fumble is dou-
bled and that they risk killing their investigator (or losing a 
limb) should this happen.

Firearms (Specializations) (varies %)
Covers all manner of firearms, as well as bows and crossbows. 
You  may  spend  skill  points  to  purchase  any  skill  special-
ization.  The  generic  "Firearms"  skill  cannot  be  purchased. 
Choose  specializations  appropriate  to  your  investigator’s 
occupation and history.

Note: as a combat skill, this cannot be pushed.

Firearms specializations:

Bow (15%): use of bows and crossbows, ranging from medi-
eval longbows to modern, high-powered compound bows. 

Handgun (20%): use for all pistol-like firearms when firing 
discrete  shots.  For  machine  pistols  (MAC-11,  Uzi  pistol, 
etc.)  in  Modern  era  games,  use  the  Submachine  Gun  skill 
when firing bursts. 

Heavy Weapons (10%): use for grenade launchers, anti-tank 
rockets, etc.

Axe (15%): use this skill for larger wood axes. A small hatch-
et can be used with the basic brawling skill. If thrown, use 
Throw skill.

Flamethrower  (10%):  weapons  projecting  a  stream  of  ig-
nited flammable liquid or gas. May either be carried by the 
operator or mounted on a vehicle.

64 

Call of CthulhuMachine  Gun  (10%):  weapons  firing  bursts  from  a  bipod 
or tripod mounted weapon. If single shots are fired from a 
bipod, use Rifle skill. The differences between assault rifle, 
submachine gun and light machine gun are tenuous today. 

Rifle/Shotgun  (25%):  with  this  skill  any  type  of  rifle 
(whether  lever-action,  bolt-action  or  semi-automatic)  or 
scatter-gun  can  be  fired.  Since  the  load  from  a  shotgun 
expands in a spreading pattern, the user’s chance to hit does 
not decrease with range, but the damage dealt does. When 
an  assault  rifle  fires  a  single  shot  (or  multiple  singles)  use 
this skill. 

Submachine  Gun  (15%):  use  this  skill  when  firing  any 
machine pistol or submachine gun; also for assault rifles set 
on burst.

Note: Thrown knives use the Throw skill.

Firearms are listed in the Table XVII: Weapons (pages 

401-405).

First Aid (30%) 
The  user  is  able  to  provide  emergency  medical  care.  This 
might encompass: applying a splint to a broken leg, stemming 
bleeding,  treating  a  burn,  resuscitating  a  drowning  victim, 
dressing and cleaning a wound, etc. First Aid cannot be used 
to treat diseases (where the Medicine skill is required).

To be effective, First Aid must be delivered within one 
hour, in which case it grants 1 hit point. It may be attempted 
once, with subsequent attempts constituting a Pushed roll. 
Two people can work together to administer First Aid, with 
a success granted if either one of them rolls a success. Suc-
cessful use of First Aid can rouse an unconscious person to 
consciousness. A character is limited to one successful treat-
ment of both First Aid and Medicine until further damage 
is taken.

When  treating  a  dying  character,  successful  First  Aid 
stabilizes him or her for one hour and grants 1 temporary 
hit point. At the end of the hour, and each hour thereafter, 
the  character  must  make  a  successful  CON  roll  to  remain 
stabilized, otherwise (with a failed CON roll) the character 
is  dying  and  loses  the  temporary  hit  point  and  must  now 
make a CON roll per round thereafter