  kingdom,  including  the  structure, 
evolution,  classification, behavioral habits, and distribution 
of  animals, both living and extinct. Use this skill to iden-
tify animal species from interaction with the environment 
(tracks, droppings, marks, etc.), likely behaviors, and terri-
torial traits.

Sleight of Hand (10%) 
Allows the visual covering-up, secreting, or masking of an 
object or objects, perhaps with debris, cloth, or other inter-
vening or illusion-promoting materials, perhaps by using a 
secret panel or false compartment. Larger objects of any sort 
should be increasingly hard to conceal. 

Sleight of hand includes pick-pocketing, palming a card, 

and clandestine use of a cell phone.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Sleight  of  Hand  is  commonly  opposed  by  Spot  Hidden. 
Adjust the difficulty level according to the size of the task. 
If  it  is  a  small  item  (which  would  fit  in  a  pocket  or  up  a 
sleeve) that is being palmed or concealed, no adjustment is 
required. If the item is larger, the level of difficulty may be 
increased.

i  Regular  difficulty:  picking  the  pocket  of  someone 

with less than 50% Spot Hidden skill.

i  Hard difficulty: picking the pocket of someone with 

50% to 89% Spot Hidden skill.

Pushing  examples:  taking  more  time  to  study  the  target 
and  their  behaviors;  physically  touching  or  bumping  into 
the  target;  setting  up  an  elaborate  rig  inside  one’s  jacket 
to  conceal  a  card  or  loaded  dice;  having  someone  cause  a 
distraction.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  you  feel 
a policeman’s hand on your shoulder; while no one can 
prove you pick-pocketed the priceless diamond, some-
one has their suspicions and you begin to notice that 
for  the  last  week  you  have  been  tailed  by  a  myste-
rious  dark  figure;  you’re  caught  red-handed  and 
the mobster doesn’t take kindly to thieves! You’re 
taken out back and shown the business end of a 
couple of baseball bats.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed 

roll, he or she acts like a kleptomaniac.

Spot Hidden (25%)
This skill allows the user to spot a secret door or compart-
ment, notice a hidden intruder, find an inconspicuous clue, 
recognize  a  repainted  automobile,  become  aware  of  am-
bushers, notice a bulging pocket, or anything similar. This is 
an important skill in the armory of an investigator.

If a character has only a fleeting chance to spot something, 
perhaps while running past it, the Keeper may raise the level 
of difficulty. If the character is conducting a thorough search, 
the Keeper might award an automatic success. The difficulty 
level  might  also  be  adapted  to  reflect  the  environment,  it 
being harder to spot something in a cluttered room.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
When searching for a character who is hiding, the opponent’s 
Stealth skill is used to set the difficulty level for the roll.
i  Regular difficulty: searching a room for clues.
i  Hard  difficulty:  searching  for  something  that  has 

been purposefully well hidden.

Pushing  examples:  taking  more  time  to  observe  the  area; 
pulling  the  place  apart;  dismantling  the  furniture  and 
smashing the porcelain statuettes.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  inadver-
tently drop something of your own while searching, which 
will make it clear that you have been there (the investigator 
will not realize this at the time); you fail to the