," con-
taining drilling equipment and other tools, such as dynamite. 

Carl’s Explanation and Entrapment
If the investigators gain access, they may be introduced to 
Carl White, who is pleasant enough to the investigators at 
first and suggests that they step into his office. Given that he 
and his team have only recently been converted to Gla'aki’s 

The Dig Site

359 

chapter 15: scenarioscause,  they  don’t  suffer  the  harmful  effects  of  exposure  to 
sunlight,  but  it’s  still  a  hot  summer  day  out  there  all  the 
same, so shade is preferable for a long conversation. 

Carl is willing to give the investigators a sanitized version 
of what the team is doing. He explains (honestly) that they 
have been sent into the woods to conduct geological surveys. 
He doesn’t say that they are looking for mineral deposits that 
could contaminate the reservoir’s water supply. He explains 
that they have found evidence of a potential deposit of plati-
num at this site—hence the deep blasting. They haven’t found 
any yet, but they are hopeful that they will soon. 

If the posse are not satisfied by his answers, Carl will of-
fer to show them around the rest of the site, but will avoid 
showing them inside the hole and the crystal monolith they 
are trying to blast free. This is all a ruse, designed to lead the 
investigators into a trap.

Capturing the Investigators
Carl will eventually lead the investigators to the fourth hut, and 
the other servants begin to casually make their way over to as-
sist him in the capture. Carl invites the investigators in to show 
them some of the mineral samples that have been uncovered. 

The interior is dark, but with the front door open there 
is enough light to see inside. Carl takes the investigators to 
a side room where the bound prisoners (Jane Strong, Brian 
and  Arthur  Hall)  are  being  kept.  Meanwhile,  the  servants 
shut the door to blot out the light (as they can see perfectly 
well in the dark) and rush the investigators, attempting to 
restrain and capture them. 

Turner,  Vincent,  and  Louis  (if  he  was  not  dispatched 
earlier) are in the adjoining room, sheltering from the sun, 
and will come to assist at the sound of conflict. Turner may 
use the Dominate spell (see page 254) to ensure the investi-
gators are bound without issue. 

In any case, the gloves are off at this point and the ser-
vants can’t allow the investigators to leave. If overcome, the 
investigators will be locked in the dark hut until nightfall, 
when they will be taken down to the water to become slaves 
to Turner’s god. 

The Other Prisoners and their Guards

If captured, the investigators might talk to the other prisoners:
Jane:  She  was  taken  from  the  hideout  in  the  dead  of 
night where she had been kept hostage by the Harris gang. 
Then "dead men" walked in and killed her captor by impal-
ing him on the side of the tree. 

Brian and Arthur: They were on their way back out of 
the  woods  when  they  met  the  artists  and  decided  to  stay 
for the night. They saw the paintings and realized that they 
were all having the same dreams. Brian is badly shaken up 
and confused; he overheard his captives talking. One said he 
would, "Become one with their new god." They took the art-
ists away and they have not returned. Arthur, the boy, simply 
rocks back and forth, crying.

The  servants  will  be  keeping  guard  and  can  make  an 
appearance as the Keeper wishes. They don’t want to harm 
their captives before nightfall if they can help it. 

The Crystal

Escape
If  the  investigators  have  been  taken  captive,  the  bonds 
holding them will be secure; it could take a