came  into  money  such  that  his  assets  increased  to 
$30,000,  this  would  bring  him  within  the  ‘wealthy’ 
bracket for the 1920s ($25,000–$44,500). His Credit 
Rating was previously 41 (average). His player rolls a 
1D10—resulting in a 4—and 4 is added to Harvey’s 
Credit Rating, raising it to 45. Another two rolls are 
made,  a  3  raises  his  Credit  Rating  to  48,  then  a  9 
raises it to 57. Credit Rating 57 is within the ‘wealthy’ 
income bracket, so no more rolls are added.

Things are looking up: if the investigator has been promot-
ed,  their  Credit  Rating  should  rise  accordingly  (add  1D6 
Credit Rating).

Life goes on as usual: if nothing much has changed to affect 
the investigator’s income, their Credit Rating will not alter.

Tightening one’s belt: the investigator is demoted or takes 
a period of unpaid leave. Decrease Credit Rating by 1D10.

Sold  the  family  silver:  the  investigator  has  spent  the  vast 
majority of their assets. If the investigator’s total worth (cash 
plus  assets)  now  equals  the  asset  value  of  a  lower  income 
level, decrease Credit Rating by 1D10.

Bad  luck  and  troubles:  the  investigator  loses  their  main 
source of income, usually their job. Decrease Credit Rating 
by  2D10  with  each  following  investigator  development 
phase.  If  there  is  a  state  safety  net,  the  minimum  Credit 
Rating will be 1D10-1. 

Crash! The sudden loss of all income and/or all debts being 
called in (such as in a stock market crash) lead to a dramatic 
decline  in  the  character's  fortunes.  The  investigator  must 
reduce his or her Credit Rating by 1D100. If an investigator’s 
Credit  Rating  withstands  the  loss,  it  indicates  that  either 
investigator is offered another job immediately or that they 
secreted money away somewhere safe (note the lowest Cred-
it Rating is zero—negative numbers are ignored). 

During  the  investigator  development  phase,  following 
the review of Credit Rating, the investigator’s cash should be 
refreshed, adding the amount of cash indicated on the chart for 
their present Credit Rating to any remaining cash they possess. 
Assets can change in one of two ways. First, the investigator’s 
Credit Rating can rise or fall (as a result of a change in employ-
ment, for example), in which case their asset value should be 
recalculated to fit the revised Credit Rating score. Second, an 
investigator can spend or accrue a large sum of money that will 
affect their asset value and, if sufficient, also alter their Credit 
Rating score. The Keeper should use the advice above to change 

At the end of the adventure in England, Harvey returns 
to Boston. His finances have been depleted by the trip 
but he has a great story to publish. Harvey has $80 cash 
and only $50 in assets remaining. The Keeper  agrees 
that Harvey still has his job and, while he had to sell 
his  house  and  move  into  rented  accommodation,  he 
may remain in the Average income bracket. The Keeper 
feels this best fits ‘Sold the family silver’ (his combined 
wealth is now a little more than that of ‘Poor’), and so 
insists on a decrease in Credit Rating of 1D10. Harvey’s 
player rolls 07, so Harvey’s Credit Rating drops from 
41  to  34.  Referring  to  the  Cash  and  Assets  chart,  a 
Credit Rating of 34 gets $68 cash, so this is added to 
his remaining money, giving Harvey a total