  spend  or  gain 
luck points if the Optional Luck Rule is 
being used. 

Call of CthulhuThe victim must apply one penalty die to all character-
istic rolls, and his or her guns jam on every roll of 75% or 
higher.  The  chances  for  Summon/Bind  spells  are  halved. 
The effects continue until the next sunrise, until the caster 
removes the spell, until the caster is found and blooded (hit 
hard enough to bleed), or until the victim dies.

Alternative  names:  Ye  Rite  of  Ill  Fortune,  Dark  Curse, 

Witches’ Hex.

Fist of Yog-Sothoth
Cost: variable magic points; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: Instantaneous

The  caster  causes  a  massive,  invisible  force  to  hit  a  single 
target. The caster must be able to see the target.

Each magic point invested in the spell yields 2D10 STR 
of force. For every 30 feet of distance that the caster stands 
from the target (after the first thirty feet), the caster must 
spend an additional magic point.

When the target is struck (if a living thing), an opposed 
roll must be made using the spell’s STR versus the target’s 
CON.  If  successful,  the  target  is  knocked  unconscious. 
Whether or not the target is left unconscious, the target is 
always  pushed  away  from  the  caster  for  a  distance  in  feet 
equal to the STR of the blow minus the target’s SIZ.

The  spell  can  be  used  against  the  STR  of  inanimate 
objects such as doors or walls. Results may be obvious, but 
sometimes Keepers will have to determine these cases.

For  example:  The  caster  spends  5  magic  points  to  hit 
an investigator 50 feet away. 1 magic point is spent on the 
range. The other 4 generate a STR of 8D10 that are rolled 
for  a  result  of  57.  The  investigator  fails  a  Hard  CON  roll 
(since  the  spells  STR  is  over  50)  and  so  they  are  knocked 
unconscious. The investigator has a SIZ of 45 and is bowled 
back 12 feet by the impact.

Alternative names: Channel the Strength of the Opener 
of the Way, Smite Down Thine Enemy, The Hideous Blast of 
the Foul One.

Green Decay
Cost: 15 magic points; 10 POW; 2D8 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 day

A curse that turns an individual into a green pile of mold. A 
day must be spent focusing energy upon the intended target 
of  the  spell  and  reciting  an  incantation  to  Gla'aki.  In  the 
next  24  hours  the  caster  must  personally  give  a  green  leaf 
to the target. At dawn on the following day, for the spell to 
take effect, an opposed POW roll must be made between the 
caster and target on 1D100. If the target fails the green decay 
has begun.

Over  the  next  seven  days  the  target  effectively  turns 
into  a  green  mold.  At  first  green  blotches  appear  on  the 
skin. These then begin to grow mold-like hairs. As the days 
progress,  more  and  more  of  the  victim’s  skin  grows  green 
and the skin rots. In tandem, the victim’s organs also rot. By 
the sixth day the victim’s mental facilities rapidly deteriorate 
and movement becomes impossible. The only known cure is 
to find and kill the caster, which reverses the spell’s effects.

The only known written transcriptions of this hideous 
spell  are  within  the  Book  of  Eibon  and  the  Revelations  of 
Gla'aki