  target—roll  damage  for  half  of  the  shots 
(round  down,  minimum  of  one).  Subtract  any  ar-
mor from each shot.

T  If the attack roll is an Extreme success: all shots fired 
hit the target, the first half (round down, minimum 
of one) of which impale. Subtract any armor from 

116 

Tommy guns aren't always useful against the Mythos..

each shot. As for all firearm attacks, if the difficulty 
level of the shot was Extreme, the best possible result 
is a successful hit and not an impale.

A shooter with a skill of 63%, firing a full auto (mul-
tiple volleys) at a single target at normal range, makes 
one  attack  roll  for  each  volley  of  6  shots.  The  first 
volley  requires  a  Regular  success.  The  second  volley 
of 6 bullets incurs a penalty die, as this is the second 
attack roll (for shots 7-12), and the third volley takes 
two penalty dice (for shots 13-18).

If  the  shooter  had  announced  they  were  firing 
a fourth volley then the attack roll would incur two 
penalty dice, and the difficulty level (for shots 19-24) 
would increase to Hard.

Alternatively,  if  the  same  shooter  fired  just  12 
shots, dividing them equally between three targets (4 
shots  at  each)  at  normal  range,  the  first  attack  roll 
would be for the 4 shots at the first target. The next 
4  shots  at  the  second  target  would  require  a  second 
attack roll, with one penalty die, followed by a further 
attack roll for the 4 shots at the third target, this time 
with  two  penalty  dice.  In  this  case  the  attacker  has 
chosen to fire three partial volleys of 4 shots (rather 
than the full 6-shot volleys) to conserve ammunition.

Call of CthulhuFor example: Harvey and his two of his friends, Rodger and Cecil, turn up to a prearranged meeting place in an old ware-
house. Suddenly a gangster appears from the shadows, bringing a tommy gun to bear, and opens fire on the investigators, 
initiating a combat round. 
Gangster: DEX 50 

Firearms (Submachine gun) skill: 40 (Regular) / 20 (Hard) / 8 (Extreme)
Fighting (Brawl) skill: 30 (Regular) / 15 (Hard) / 6 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 25 (Regular) / 12 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Damage Bonus: 1D4
Hit points: 13
Harvey: DEX 55 

Fighting (Brawl) skill: 25 (Regular) / 12 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 27 (Regular) / 13 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Damage Bonus: none
Hit points: 15
Rodger: DEX 70 

Fighting (Brawl) skill: 40 (Regular) / 20 (Hard) / 8 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 42 (Regular) / 21 (Hard) / 8 (Extreme)
Damage Bonus: 1D4
Hit points: 14

Round one:

The gangster goes first, firing on his DEX +50 for using a readied firearm. 
The gangster’s action:
One-tenth of the gangster’s SMG skill is 4, so he is able to fire volleys of 4 rounds. He chooses to fire 4 shots at each of 
the three investigators (3 volleys, 12 shots in total). Harvey and Cecil dive for cover, but Rodger pulls a pistol and stands 
his ground. Harvey makes a Dodge roll, but Cecil fails. The Keeper rules that the investigators are each 3 meters apart; 
the gangster wastes 6 extra rounds moving between his three targets (his