 the porcelain statuettes.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  inadver-
tently drop something of your own while searching, which 
will make it clear that you have been there (the investigator 
will not realize this at the time); you fail to the spot the paw 
print in the mud and are surprised when the red-eyed beast 
leaps  at  you  from  the  trees;  while  you  managed  to  find  a 
clue, you didn’t notice the cultists arriving home.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she is 
convinced that something is there and that they will find it 
under the wallpaper, hidden in the plaster, or beneath the 
floorboards.

Stealth (20%) 
The art of moving quietly and/or hiding, without alerting 
those who might hear or see. When attempting to avoid de-
tection, the player should attempt a Stealth skill roll. Ability 
with  the  skill  suggests  either  that  the  character  is  adept  at 
moving quietly (light-footed) and/or skilled in camouflage 
techniques. The skill might also suggest that the character 
can  maintain  a  level  of  patience  and  cool-headedness  to 

remain still and unseen for long periods.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

When  attempting  to  hide,  the  opponent’s  Spot 
Hidden or Listen skill is used to set the difficulty 
level  for  the  roll.  Situational  modifiers  may 
also apply (e.g. darkness or loud noises).

i  Regular  difficulty:  moving  quietly 
around the house to avoid detection by 
average people (those with Spot Hid-
den and Listen skills of less than 50%).

76 

Call of Cthulhui  Hard  difficulty:  sneaking  past  an  attentive  guard 
dog; having only seconds to find a hiding place.

Pushing examples: taking more time to study the area; re-
moving your shoes; causing a distraction; sitting tight until 
the coast appears clear.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: unbeknown 
to you, you have been spotted and rather than approach you 
directly, the cultists decide to summon "something" to get 
you;  you  hear  the  cupboard  door  behind  which  you  are 
hiding being locked then nailed shut.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll the investiga-
tor may believe he or she is invisible, when in fact everyone 
can see them.

Survival (Specializations) (10%)
Knowledge  of  this  skill  provides  the  expertise  required  to 
survive in extreme environments, such as in desert or arctic 
conditions, as well as upon the sea or in wilderness terrain. 
Inherent  is  the  knowledge  of  hunting,  building  shelters, 
hazards  (such  as  the  avoidance  of  poisonous  plants),  etc., 
according to the given environment. 

You may spend skill points to purchase any skill special-
ization.  The  generic  "Survival"  skill  cannot  be  purchased. 
An  environment  specialism  should  be  determined  when 
this  skill  is  chosen,  for  example:  Survival  (Desert),  (Sea), 
(Arctic),  etc. When  a  character  does  not  have  the  obvious 
survival  specialty,  they  may  roll  against  an  allied  specialty 
with the level of difficulty increased (or penalty die) at the 
Keeper’s discretion. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Modifiers may be awarded for the conditions or situation, 
or where the character has no specialist skill for a particular 
environment.

i  Regular  difficulty:  find/make  shelter;  locate  water 

and sources of food.

i  Hard difficulty: as above but when weather condi-
tions are extreme and/or you are badly injured.

Pushing examples: trying something risky (e.g. drinking the 
water without purifying it first