 as the god Yibb, 
however now he has no known cult. 

Yibb-Tstll  is  often  approached  by  individuals—most 
often  sorcerers—who  either  crave  the  use  of  Yibb-Tstll’s 
servitors, the nightgaunts, or ask for his beneficent touch.

329 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsOther Characteristics

Yibb-Tstll’s  blood,  known  as 
The  Black  by  sorcerers,  can 
be  summoned  and  can  take 
independent action.
Yibb-Tstll’s 

touch 
commonly causes a drastic 
loss,  one  of  the  Keeper’s 
choice—perhaps  the  im-
mediate  loss  of  all  Sanity 
points, a quick death from 
fearful  convulsions,  or 
perhaps running forward 
to  suckle  from  the  thing 
before  being  ripped  to 
shreds.  Changes  might 
be  physical.  Sometimes 

Yibb-Tstll

they are beneficial.

SIZ 260 

YIBB-TSTLL, The Patient One
STR 200 
CON 240 
POW 325  HP 50
Damage Bonus: +5D6
Build: 6
Magic Points: 65
Move: 0

DEX 80 

INT 300

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Yibb-Tstll’s touch is deadly.
Touch 100% (50/20), see above 
Armor:  12-point  cloak,  regenerates  5  hit  points  per  round.  Loss 
of all hit points dispels Yibb-Tstll, but he can soon reform or 
reappear somewhere else.

Spells:  All  Contact  spells,  Call  Yibb-Tstll,  Contact  Yibb-Tstll,   
Summon/Bind Nightgaunt, others as desired by the Keeper.

Sanity Loss: 1D6/1D20 Sanity points to see Yibb-Tstll.

Yig

The half-human father of serpents…the snake-god of the 
central plains tribes—presumably the primal source of the 
more southerly Quetzalcoatl or Kukulcan—was an odd, 
half-anthropomorphic devil.

—H.P. Lovecraft and Zealia Bishop, The Curse of Yig

Yig is never clearly described, but may look like a scaly strong 
man with a serpent-like head or a normal head. He may be 
accompanied by mobs of snakes. He seems to be mainly a 
North American deity. The notorious “Curse of Yig” consists 
of madness and malformed children.

Cult
Yig is recorded as being worshiped by Plains tribes and voo-
doo doctors, and may be somehow connected to Quetzalcoatl. 
He is also worshiped by the serpent people and their kin. 
Worshipers  gain  some  immunity  from  poisonous  snakes, 
the  ability  to  talk  to  snakes,  and  some  arcane  rituals  and 
spells. If someone exposes cult secrets or does harm to the 
cult, Yig sends a sacred snake to kill the offender.

Other Characteristics
A manifestation of Yig would be signaled largely or entirely 
by  a  carpet  of  serpents—rattlers  in  North  America,  puff 
adders or cobras elsewhere.

A  sacred  snake  of Yig  is  always  a  large  individual  of  a 
species  native  to  the  area  where  manifested,  with  a  white 
crescent on the top of its head. In North America, usually 
such  a  snake  would  be  an  enormous  tom  rattler,  at  least 
5-6 feet long. The snake appears so swiftly that the victim 
is  always  startled  and  automatically  hit  unless  he  or  she