  POW,  DEX,  and APP 
from  the  victim,  and  costs  him  or  her  1D6  hit  points  as  well. 
Each point of POW so drained increases the colour’s POW. The 
victim is aware of a sucking, burning sensation and progressively 
withers and greys. The victim’s face sinks, the skin ageing with 
hideous cracks and wrinkles. Once drained, the victim dies.
Mental Attack: A colour can weaken the minds of nearby sentient 
beings. For each day in the colour’s vicinity, each person must 
make an opposed INT roll or lose 1D6 magic points and 1D6 
Sanity  points.  Magic  points  so  destroyed  cannot  be  regained 
without leaving the area. The influence also strongly binds the 
victim to his or her home and the influence becomes increas-
ingly irresistible as the victim’s will weakens. To leave the area, 
he or she must make a successful Hard or Extreme POW roll 
(half  POW  if  magic  points  are  reduced  by  50%,  or  one-fifth 
of POW if magic points have been reduced to 0 or less), or be 
inexplicably compelled to stay.

Drain Opposed roll: victim’s POW vs. colour’s POW, damage 1D6 

+ characteristic loss 

Mental Attack Opposed roll: victim’s INT vs. colour’s POW, dam-

age 1D6 magic points + 1D6 Sanity points 

Dodge 47% (23/9)

285 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsArmor:  None—invulnerable  to  physical  attack  except  by  strong 
magnetic fields, which can imprison it. Vulnerable to magic.
Sanity  Loss:  0/1D4  Sanity  points  to  see  a  colour;  1/1D8  Sanity 

points to see a victim of a colour.

Crawling One

Could  the  colour  of  out  space  have  sought  Earth  as 
place to pupate or gestate its young? Perhaps the Earth 
provides  a  safe  and  bountiful  haven  against  other-
worldly Mythos predators. What strange experiments 
would the mi-go perform if they successfully captured 
or reared a colour?

Crawling One
Wisely did Ibn Schacabao say, that happy the town at night 
whose wizards are all ashes. For it is of old rumor that the 
soul of the devil-bought hastes not from his charnel clay, 
but fats and instructs the very worm that gnaws; till out of 
corruption horrid life springs, and the dull scavengers of earth 
wax crafty to vex it and swell monstrous to plague it. Great 
holes secretly are digged where earth’s pores ought to suffice, 
and things have learnt to walk that ought to crawl.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Festival

A crawling one is composed of thousands of worms and mag-
gots. Each worm is individually alive and constantly moves, 
though they generally hold the shape of a human body. The 
collective mass of wriggling creatures possesses the mind of 
a dead sorcerer, long since devoured by the maggoty horde. 
The ingested "will" of the wizard effectively drives the mass to 
work collectively to perform deeds and actions.

SPECIAL POWERS

Crawling ones cannot speak but can write messages. It is un-
necessary for them to use spoken words in performing spells 
or when communing with their alien masters or creatures 
from beyond. 

Spells: Each crawling one knows at least 1D10 spells.

Fighting attacks: Crawling ones can use weapons as humans do, 
however they prefer to use spells or their minions to undertake 
physical tasks. 

Fighting 35% (17/7), damage 1D3 (unarmed) or by weapon type
Dodge 20% (10/4)
Armor: None; however due to the soft and resilient quality of the 
crawling one’s bodies, normal weapons do