 or a mount-
ed weapon, effectively doubles the base range for the weap-
on. Where the weapon is mechanically braced to a structure 
(vehicle or building) the user gains a bonus die.

Movement During Combat
Combat  is  usually  described  narratively,  so  the  distance 
between combatants is rarely measured precisely. It is more 
often  expressed  in  approximate  and  subjective  terms  such 
as "arm’s reach," "close," "across the room," "away down the 
alley," etc. If it seems that distance should be an issue in a 
particular fight, the following rules should be used.

The  maximum  distance  a  character  can  move  in  one 
combat round is equal to their MOV rating multiplied by 
5, in yards. 

In the case of melee attacks, the attacker must get into 

melee range before attacking. 

T  A  character  can  move  a  number  of  yards  equal  to 

their MOV rate and attack normally.

T  If the attacker moves up to their MOV rate multi-
plied by 5, they may make one melee attack at the 
end of the round.

In the case of firearms, shots can be taken by a moving 

character at any time in the round. 

T  To take advantage of the +50 DEX for using a read-
ied  firearm,  the  firearm  must  be  used  before  any 
movement is made.

T  A character can move up to a number of yards equal 
to  their  MOV  rate  and  make  their  firearms  attack 
(or attacks) normally on their usual DEX rank.
T  If  the  attacker  moves  their  MOV  rate  multiplied 
by 5 in yards,  they must fire while running and so 
lack sufficient time to take a steady firing position, 
taking a penalty die to their attack roll(s). The shots 
will  normally  be  taken  on  their  usual  turn  in  the 
DEX  order,  but  may  be  delayed  if  significant  dis-
tance must be covered to reach a firing position (at 
the Keeper’s discretion).

Complete Concealment
If  a  target  remains  completely  concealed  for  the  whole 
round,  an  attacker  may  still  take  shots  through  the  cover 
in  the  hope  of  hitting  their  target.  The  chance  of  hitting 
depends on the size of the area in which the target is taking 
cover; there is a great difference between hiding in a small 
garden shed and hiding in an aircraft hangar. The attacker is 
mostly using intuition to hit the target. If the hiding space is 
small, the Keeper should raise the difficulty level by only one 
step; if there is more space to hide in, raise it again or only 
allow a hit on a critical success, if at all.

Table IV:  
Optional Hit  
Locations

Die Roll

1–3

4 — 6

7 — 10

11 — 15

16 — 17

18 — 19

20

Location

Right leg

Left leg

Abdomen

Chest

Right arm

Left arm

Head

Shooting at a Target Through Cover
In some instances of partial concealment, the attacker may 
choose to shoot through the cover in an attempt to hit the 
target. In this case add one penalty die (as for partial con-
cealment) and apply an armor rating for the type of cover, 
for example a low brick wall could provide an armor rating 
of 10, whereas a thin wooden fence might only give 1 point 
of protection (see Armor page 108). 

Shooting through a high brick wall to target someone 
who is hiding behind it (complete concealment): raise 
the  difficulty  level  by  two  steps  and  apply  the  wall’s 
armor rating of 10 to any successful attacks.

Point-Blank Revisited
The point-blank bonus die does not apply to long or cum-
bersome  weapons  such  as  rifles,  full-length  shotguns, 