ania: compulsion for starting 
fires.
87) Question-Asking Mania: compulsive 
urge to ask questions.
88) Rhinotillexomania: compulsive nose 
picking.
89) Scribbleomania: obsession with 
scribbling/doodling.
90) Siderodromomania: intense fascina-
tion with trains and railroad travel.
91) Sophomania: the delusion that one is 
incredibly intelligent.
92) Technomania: obsession with new 
technology.
93) Thanatomania: belief that one is 
cursed by death magic.
94) Theomania: belief that he or she is a god.
95) Titillomaniac: compulsion for 
scratching oneself.
96) Tomomania: irrational predilection for 
performing surgery.
97) Trichotillomania: craving for pulling 
out own hair.
98) Typhlomania: pathological blindness.
99) Xenomania: obsession with foreign 
things.
100) Zoomania: insane fondness for 
animals.

161 

chapter 8: sanityout of range of the stimulus. For example, while in a place 
that serves alcohol, a dipsomaniac would take one penalty 
die on all rolls unless taking a drink. Of course characters 
who fully succumb to their drug craving will be subject to 
the drug’s  effects,  such as drunkenness  or altered states of 
consciousness. In such situations the Keeper may alter the 
level of difficulty of certain skill rolls (or impose a penalty 
die on opposed skill rolls) depending on the situation and 
state of the character.

Successful use of the Psychoanalysis skill upon an insane 
investigator  enables  the  insane  investigator  to  temporarily 
ignore a phobia or mania (see Chapter 4: Skills).

Harvey has developed Selenophobia (fear of the moon). 
On exiting a theater with friends, the sight of the moon 
gives him a chill. Harvey is sane at present. His player 
describes  Harvey’s  nervous  disposition  and  his  relief 
when he arrives home and closes the curtains. 

A  week  later,  Harvey,  now  suffering  underlying 
insanity,  finds  himself  in  a  similar  situation  and 
chooses to flee home to safety. On his way home, Har-
vey is followed by a sinister-looking individual. The 
Keeper offers a Spot Hidden roll to Harvey’s player to 
determine if Harvey notices his pursuer. Since this roll 
has nothing to do with either fighting or fleeing, and 
Harvey is still exposed to the source of his phobia, one 
penalty  die  is  applied  to  his  Spot  Hidden  roll.  Only 
when Harvey is safely in doors and the moon is out of 
sight will this penalty cease.

Insanity Side-Effects 2: Delusions 
and Reality Checks
Where does madness leave off and reality begin? Is it possible 
that even my latest fear is sheer delusion? 

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shadow Over Innsmouth

While not in control of the investigator’s actions, the Keeper 
is free to present an investigator suffering underlying insan-
ity  with  delusional  sensory  information  at  any  time.  The 
only way for the player to be sure of what his or her insane 
investigator is seeing, hearing, touching, feeling or smelling 
is to make a “Reality Check”. 

Delusions  have  greater  impact  when  they  have  some 
relevance to the investigator. A great way to do this is to refer 
to the investigator’s backstory and use some aspect as inspi-
ration for delusions. An investigator’s late spouse calling on 
the  telephone  is  much  more  engaging  than  random  delu-
sions. Delusions can also make great consequences when a 
player of an investigator suffering underlying insanity fails 
a Pushed skill roll.

Reality Check Rolls
While  reality  checks  are  only  usually  called  for  on  behalf 
of  insane  investigators,  a  player  might  call  for  one  if