  to  take  interest  in 
human affairs or to acknowledge the existence of the human 
race. When  they  do,  they  often  are  shown  trying  to  break 
through cosmic walls or dimensions in order to wreak new 
destruction.  All  the  races  and  lesser  deities  of  the  Mythos 
acknowledge the Outer Gods and many worship them.

The Outer Gods are controlled, or at least represented, 
to some extent by their messenger and soul, Nyarlathotep. 
When  the  Outer  Gods  are  discomforted,  Nyarlathotep 

340 

Call of Cthulhu341 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsinvestigates.  Azathoth,  the  daemon  sultan  and  ruler  of 
the  cosmos,  writhes  mindlessly  to  the  piping  of  a  demon 
flute  at  the  center  of  the  universe.  Yog-Sothoth,  either  a 
second-in-command  or  co-ruler,  is  coterminous  with  all 
time and space, but locked somehow outside the mundane 
universe. Yog-Sothoth  can  be  summoned  to  this  side  only 
through the use of mighty spells, whereas Azathoth theoret-
ically might be met by traveling far enough through space. 
A  group  of  Outer  Gods  and  their  servitors  dance  slowly 
around Azathoth, but none are named.

The  Outer  Gods  include:  Abhoth,  Azathoth,  Daoloth, 
The  Lesser  Other  Gods,  Nyarlathotep,  Shub-Niggurath, 
Tulzscha, Ubbo Sathla, Yibb-Tstll, and Yog-Sothoth. 

The Elder Gods are not a Lovecraftian convention; later 
writers (such as August Derleth) coined the term and many 
consider  them  a  poorly-judged  addition  to  the 
Mythos  as  they  suggest  the  concepts  of 
good and evil—terms that have little 
or no meaning when considering 
the  actions,  purpose,  and 
ideologies  of  cosmic  alien 
gods. Derleth posited that 
the  Elder  Gods  some-
how  oppose  the  Outer 
Gods  and  the  Great 
Old  Ones,  and  are 
in  fact  the  cause  of 
the  catastrophe  that 
brought  about  the 
imprisonment of the 
Great Old Ones. 

The  Elder  Gods 
include: Bast, Hypnos, 
and Nodens.
Outer 

and  Elder 

sometimes  have 

Gods 
been  lumped  together  and 
confusingly  called  the  Other 
Gods,  though  primarily  gods 
of the outer planets and not of our 
Earth.  They  would  seem  seldom  called 
here, but when they do appear they are second 
to nothing in horror. (And, just to thoroughly confuse you, 
a  set  of  minor  Outer  Gods  are  known  collectively  as  the 
Lesser  Other  Gods!)  Species  associated  with  these  deities 
(shantaks,  hunting  horrors,  servitors  of  the  Outer  Gods, 
dark  young  of  Shub-Niggurath)  are  correspondingly  rare 
on Earth.

The Great Old Ones
They  are  not  as  supernatural  as  the  Outer  Gods,  but  are 
nonetheless god-like and terrible to human senses. Humans 
are much more likely to worship Great Old Ones, who are 
comparatively  near  at  hand  and  who  occasionally  partici-
pate  in  human  affairs  or  contact  individual  humans,  than 
they are to worship Outer Gods. Entire clans or cults may 
secret