 taking more time to study the target/s; 
going “native”  for  a  period;  taking  an  active  role  in  a  cer-
emony, rite, etc.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  being  at-
tacked  or  imprisoned  by  the  people  studied,  due  to  some 
perceived  transgression  of  their  laws  or  social  mores;  suf-
fering  severe  side-effects  as  the  result  of  being  involved  in 
a ceremony which involved ingesting psychotropic plants.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
will  be  lost  among  the  culture  being  studied,  for  example 
like Dennis Hopper’s photojournalist character in the film 
Apocalypse Now.

Appraise (01%)
Used to estimate the value of a particular item, including the 
quality,  material  used,  and  workmanship.  Where  relevant, 
the skill-user could pinpoint the age of the item, assess its 
historical relevance, and detect forgeries.

i  Regular difficulty: getting a trained dog to sit, fetch, 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

or attack on command.

i  Hard difficulty: getting an untrained or unfamiliar 

dog to perform a task on command.

Pushing examples: taking greater personal risk, in terms of 
getting closer to, or directly handling the animal.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: the animal 
attacks the trainer or someone else nearby, most likely caus-
ing damage; the animal escapes.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
might be found behaving like the animal they were trying 
to control.

i  Regular  difficulty:  an  item  that  was  not  rare  at  its 
time  of  manufacture,  and  is  made  of  a  common 
material (e.g. 50 year-old gold watch).

i  Hard difficulty: an unusual item, perhaps made of 
uncommon  materials  (e.g.  a  foreign-made  object 
of several hundred years in age, such as an ancient 
tome).

Pushing examples: checking an item’s validity with another 
expert; conducting testing; researching an item.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: accidentally 
ruining the item in question; bringing the item to the atten-
tion of other people, leading to its theft; activating whatever 
function the item might serve.

57 

chapter 4: skillsIf  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
could destroy the item, believing it to be cursed; alternative-
ly they regard the item as their personal salvation and refuse 
to give it up to anyone else.

Archaeology (01%)
Allows dating and identification of artifacts from past cul-
tures, and the detection of fakes. Ensures expertise in setting 
up and excavating a dig site. On inspecting a site, the user 
might deduce the purposes and way of life of those who left 
the  remains. Anthropology  might  aid  in  this. Archaeology 
also helps identify written forms of extinct human languag-
es.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  sufficient  time  and  resources  to 

do the job properly.

i  Hard  difficulty:  a  lack  of  time  and/or  limited  re-

sources.

Pushing examples: taking more time to study the site or item; 
conducting further research; consulting another expert.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: The site is 
spoiled, with finds ruined through incompetence, vandalism 
or  theft;  some  higher  authority  seizes  the  site  or  the  finds 
from your control; publicity leads to the finds being stolen.
If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
keeps digging deeper, ever deeper—the