

Sneak

this, since it previously began at 50% in the case of human 
NPCs, so reduce their punch skill by 25% to create balance.

Number  of  attacks  per  round:  Review  the  monster’s  de-
scription and figure how many attacks it may make per round, 
and  if  any  of  its  attacks  are  limited  in  the  number  of  times 
they may be used in a single round.

Other forms of attack: Many monsters have unique forms of 
attack. Where possible try to encompass these attacks, such as 

392 

Call of Cthulhuclaws or tentacles, under the umbrella skill of Fighting, adding 
some  notes  on  how  to  narrate  the  attacks.  If  the  attack  does 
something other than simply causing damage, create a Fighting 
Maneuver that replicates the effects of the attack. If the effect is 
simply to grab or knock an opponent to the floor, this can simply 
be performed with a maneuver (see Fighting Maneuvers, page 
105) using the creature’s basic Fighting skill. Take care to multiply 
any effects to characteristics by 5, and if need be, substituting a 
dice combination that approximates the new range of effect.

Other  characteristics:  The  monster’s  damage  bonus,  hit 
points, armor, and MOV remain unchanged.

Converting Scenarios
One of the great virtues for many players of Call of Cthulhu 
is the wealth of published scenarios and campaigns that have 
been published over the years. All of these can be used with 
the  new  7th  Edition  Call  of  Cthulhu  rules  with  only  a  few 
minor rules modifications.

Idea Rolls
It  is  important  to  note  the  difference  between  Intelligence 
rolls and Idea rolls in Call of Cthulhu 7th Edition.

Dark Young of Shub-Niggurath. To begin with, its average characteristics in 6th Edition are multiplied by 5. Where two 
values are listed (shown in brackets below) the Keeper may choose to take either the average or the higher one at his or her 
discretion.

6th Ed.  
STR 
44 x 5  
CON  (16-17) 16.5 x 5  
44 x 5  
SIZ 
(16-17) 16.5 x 5  
DEX 
INT 
14 x 5  
POW  (17-18) 18 x 5 

=  
=  
=  
=  
= 
= 

7th Ed.
STR 220 
CON 82  
SIZ 220 
DEX 82
INT 70 
POW 90  

The dark young has the following attacks listed in 6th Edition.

ATTACKS & SPECIAL EFFECTS: In its masses of tentacles, a typical dark young has four thicker sinuous tentacles with 
which it attacks. Each of these thicker tentacles can strike out to injure or to grab and capture once per round, conceivably 
at four different targets. If a victim is grabbed, he or she is held to one of the horrible sucking mouths and drained of 1D3 
STR per round. This STR loss cannot be restored. While being drained, a victim is capable only of ineffectual writhing and 
screaming. The dark young can also trample with its massive hooves, typically hooting and bellowing as it does.

Weapons: Tentacle 80%, damage DB + STR drain
Trample 40%, damage 2D6 + DB
For 7th Edition these are altered as follows. First a number of attacks per round is figured. The text informs us that the 

dark young can attack 4 times with its tentacles and once with its hooves, thus it has 5 attacks per round:
Attacks per round: 5. It may only use its Trample attack once per round.

Then the creature’s basic Fighting attack is figured. Its most common attack is tentacle, so this value is used, setting its 
Fighting attack to 80%. Advice is offered on