 a  prodigious  letter  writer;  he  regularly 
corresponded with other fiction writers, including Robert 
E. Howard (creator of Conan the Barbarian), Clark Ashton 
Smith  (creator  of  Averoigne  and  Zothique)  and  Robert 
Bloch  (later  to  write  Psycho).  HPL’s  fictional  worlds  and 
histories were often discussed, as were the worlds created 
by Smith and other writers. It was not long before Smith 
and  Lovecraft  carried  this  sharing  of  ideas  into  their  fic-
tion, referring to each other’s creations in their stories. It 
was  Smith  who  gave  birth  to  such  deities  as  Tsathoggua, 
Atlach-Nacha,  and Abhoth,  and  who  created  the  magical 
tome,  the  Book  of  Eibon.  It  was  Smith’s  magical,  prehis-
toric  Hyperborea  that  Lovecraft  frequently  referred  to  in 
his tales. This idea was soon picked up by other authors. 
Robert E. Howard created the dreaded Unaussprechlichen 

22 

Call of CthulhuAldebaran. Although briefly mentioned by Lovecraft in ear-
ly tales, these were actually the creations of Ambrose Bierce 
(1842-circa 1914), an American journalist and early expo-
nent of the weird tale. Bierce was an early influence on HPL, 
as were a number of other writers. His favorite author was 
always Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849), and Poe’s influence can 
be clearly seen in some of Lovecraft’s first adult fiction. “The 
Outsider” (1921) perhaps most closely emulates Poe’s style 
and subject matter. Arthur Machen (1863-1947) was anoth-
er early influence; his story “The Great God Pan” (1894) is 
very similar in theme to Lovecraft’s “The Dunwich Horror”. 
Robert  W.  Chambers  (1865-1933)  also  left  his  mark  on 
Lovecraft. A mysterious play, The King in Yellow, figures in 
some of Chambers’ stories and probably inspired Lovecraft 
to  create  the  Necronomicon,  the  Pnakotic  Manuscripts  and 
the other tomes of eldritch lore for which his tales are fa-
mous. It was Chambers who first borrowed from Bierce the 
Lake  of  Hali  and  Carcosa,  perhaps  inspiring  Lovecraft  to 
attempt transpositions.

Lord  Dunsany  (1878-1957)  was  probably  Lovecraft’s 
strongest  contemporary  influence.  It  was  Dunsany’s  The 
Gods of Pegana (1905) that encouraged Lovecraft to write 
several  dream-based  stories  and  first  provided  him  with 
the idea of an artificial pantheon of gods. Algernon Black-
wood, another contemporary admired by HPL, drew upon 
Native  American  legends  for  the  version  of  the  Wendigo 
later adapted into the Mythos by August Derleth, which is 
there called Ithaqua.

Before Lovecraft’s death, this circle of correspondents 
would include such recognizable names as Henry Kuttner, 
C. L. Moore, J. Vernon Shea, E. Hoffman Price, and Fritz 
Leiber. Some of these letters are collected in five Arkham 
House volumes, while others are published by Necronom-
icon Press. Brown University, in Lovecraft’s hometown of 
Providence,  Rhode  Island,  maintains  a  catalogued  Love-
craft collection with thousands more.

It  was  not  until  late  in  Lovecraft’s  career—and  then 
probably only at the urging of some of his younger corre-
spondents—that he began to integrate into his later stories 
some  of  the  creations  found  in  his  earliest  tales.  In “