 compar-
isons with Astronomy and Pharmacy (in the case of 
Science). Thus, within Fighting, Firearms, Languages 
(by grouping), and Survival, the improvement of one 
specialization  has  a  transferable  benefit  to  all  other 
closely related specialisms. 

G  When a character first raises a specialization within 
one of these skills to 50% or over, all other related skill 
specializations are raised by 10 percentage points (but 
not  higher  than  50%).  This  may  happen  only  once 
more:  when  a  character  first  raises  a  specialization 
to  90%  or  over,  all  other  related  specializations  are 
again raised by 10 percentage points (but not higher 
than  90%).  During  investigator  creation  the  player 
may boost a specialization and gain the additional 10 
points in each of the others prior to spending further 
points in those other specializations.

Matthew  spends  25  skill  points  to  raise  his  Fighting 
(Brawl)  skill  to  50%.  Any  other  Fighting  specializa-
tions will gain a 10% point bonus to their base values. 
Fighting (Sword) now starts at 30% instead of 20%. 
He  then  spends  5  skill  points  to  raise  his  Fighting 
(Sword) skill to 35%. In play, Matthew’s investigator 
picks up an axe. Matthew did not put any skill points 
in the axe specialization, but since he has one Fighting 
specialization of 50%, his base chance with an axe is 
elevated by 10 percentage points to 25%. 

Brian  put  20  points  in  his  Fighting  (Brawl) 
specialization,  25  points  into  Fighting  (Axe)  and  12 
points into Fighting (Sword), thus these now stand at: 
Brawl 45%, Axe 45%, Sword 32%. In play, he gains a 
tick in Fighting (Brawl) and gains 7 points, raising the 
skill to 52%. This allows him to raise his other special-
izations by 10 points (but not above 50%), so his skills 
now stand at: Brawl 52%, Axe 50%, Sword 42% (note 
that his Axe skill only rose by 5%).

78 

Call of CthulhuLanguages
When  a  character  first  raises  a  language  (other  than  Own 
Language)  to  50%,  all  other  related  language  families  are 
raised by 10 percentage points (but not higher than 50%). 
This  may  happen  only  once  more:  when  a  character  first 
raises  a  language  (other  than  Own  Language)  to  90%,  all 
other related languages within that family are raised by 10 
percentage  points  (but  not  higher  than  90%).  For  exam-
ple,  related  family  categories  include  Germanic  (English, 
German,  Dutch),  Slavic  (Russian,  Czech,  Polish,  etc.),  Ni-
ger-Congo (Swahili, Zulu, Yoruba, etc.) 

Note this is in no way an exhaustive list of the possible 
language  families,  and  Keepers  opting  to  use  this  rule  are 
recommended to refer to standard encyclopedia entries for 
“language families.”

"It will take me several weeks to translate this"

79 

chapter 4: skillshis  chapter  details  the  Call  of  Cthulhu  game 
rules  that  are  used  to  ensure  fairness  and 
balance,  as  well  as  to  resolve  conflicts  and 
challenges as they arise in play. 

When to Roll Dice

There is a large amount of fun to be had playing a roleplay-
ing  game,  and  much 