 earth and the facts of the case are shrouded by strange 
events,  greed  and  obsession.  The  scenario  takes  place  in 
October, some time in the 1920s, during the Prohibition era. 
While  this  could  be  used  as  an  introduction  to  the 
Mythos  for  the  investigators,  it  is  perhaps  better  suited  as 
part  of  the  opening  stages  of  a  larger  campaign,  after  the 
investigators have come together as a group and begun to 
earn a reputation in certain circles. It also has enough open-
ings and opportunities for Keepers to add plot threads, en-
counters, and factions of their own to exploit later, as well as 
provide the investigators with potential friends and contacts 
(should they succeed) to aid them in the future.

The  events  of  this  scenario  are  triggered  by  the  unex-
pected  death  of  Professor  Charles  Leiter,  an  academic  at 
Miskatonic  University,  in  strange  circumstances  that  have 
the  possibility  of  opening  up  the  University  to  charges  of 
misappropriation and theft, and a potential scandal it can 
ill-afford. One of the administrators at the university, Dean 
Bryce Fallon, will engage the investigators with the task of 
looking into the untimely demise of Charles Leiter, and in 
particular  the  recovery  of  certain  valuable  papers  which 
were in Leiter’s care and are now missing, preferably before 
their legal owners become aware of the loss. 

The scenario is intended for two to five investigators. It 
will prove helpful if at least one of the investigators has an 
antiquarian  or  academic  background,  although  this  is  not 
vital. Good social skills will also be of help, as will a willing-
ness to engage with the non-player characters.

This  scenario  is  non-linear  and  requires  some  deci-
sions and preparation by the Keeper before play. While this 
scenario can be played in one session if condensed, it may 
prove more rewarding if played over several sessions.

Keeper’s Information
Charles Leiter, a young up-and-coming professor at Miska-
tonic  University,  was  not  all  that  he  appeared. A  specialist 
in  colonial  history,  as  well  as  something  of  a  socialite  and 
charmer,  unbeknownst  to  his  fellows  in  the  stolid  halls  of 
the university he was also living a double life as a profligate 
and a gambler—a life he was funding through forgery and 
theft. Artifacts of America’s colonial past and revolutionary 
era hold considerable value to private collectors and Leiter 
has spent the last few years using his access to the university’s 
collection, and the private collections of those his academic 
credentials have allowed him to borrow from, to supply him 
with the means to support his vice. Generally he has been 
clever while doing this, forging letters and documents and, 
where he can, selling them on as the genuine article (while 
insisting to his secret clientele that he has swapped a fake for 
the original.) However, for all Leiter’s craft and guile, he did 
not bargain that there are certain dangers in old and forgot-
ten books and papers—dangers that can transcend time and 
doom those that seek such knowledge. 

Around  four  months  ago,  Leiter  was  called  in  to  help 
the Miskatonic University in the assessment of the papers of 
the late Joshua Hobbhouse by his estate. Hobbhouse was a 
recluse who died an octogenarian bachelor and had lived in 
a rambling colonial house on the outskirts of the town, the 
last direct descendant of a line going back to the founding 
of the town centuries before. His house has proved to be a 
treasure trove of diaries, historical documents