for at this stage; however, the Keeper may choose to grant 
automatic success, depending on the scenario.

If success is not automatic, the player should attempt a 
Hard INT roll to learn the spell. If the player fails the roll, the 
investigator has not learned the spell. The player may ask to 
push the roll, but must justify doing so; for example, the in-
vestigator might lock themselves away in isolation until the 
spell is mastered. When thinking of consequences for failing 
a  pushed  roll,  the  Keeper  should  be  creative  and  include 
Sanity  point  loss  and  strange  magical  effects—both  upon 
the investigator and their surroundings. If investigator is in 
no hurry, they may continue to work on learning the spell 
without  pushing  the  roll.  The  timing  of  the  next  INT  roll 
is at the Keeper’s discretion (perhaps once per two weeks).

Learning a Spell from Another Person
Having  learned  a  spell,  a  character  may  teach  it  to  others. 
One-on-one  teaching  is  quicker  than  one  person  learning 
from  a  book  and,  typically,  a  spell  can  be  learned  in  one 
week or less (1D8 days). Use the same rules as for learning 
a spell from a book, bearing in mind that the process will 
be faster.

176 

Call of CthulhuLearning a Spell from a Mythos Entity
At will, any intelligent Mythos entity might supply a book 
or a scroll detailing a spell. More characteristically, the entity 
imparts  such  knowledge  by  means  of  dreams  or  visions; 
each episode is disturbing and alienating, gnawing away at 
the character’s sanity and will. This may happen quickly or 
slowly, as the story requires. A Mythos entity may imbue a 
complete  spell  in  a  character’s  mind  by  telepathy,  though 
such  a  powerful  experience  also  might  send  the  character 
directly to the asylum—the Keeper should consider the level 
of Sanity loss (a minimum of 1D6 is suggested).

Once  the  process  is  complete,  the  Keeper  may  require 
the target to make a successful INT roll to retain knowledge 
of the spell. If this fails, the process must be started anew.

Investigators rarely receive information in this manner; 

however, cultists often do.

Casting Spells

We have no business calling in such things from outside, and 
only very wicked people and very wicked cults ever try to.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Dunwich Horror

Manipulating the forces of the Cthulhu Mythos leads to a 
loss of Sanity points in amounts that vary by spell. If some 
awful creature arrives in response to a spell, encountering it 
costs yet more Sanity points. Having no Sanity points does 
not prohibit spells from being cast—if it did, there would 
be no cultists.

Nearly all spells and many magical artifacts also require 
Magic points (or POW, if that is the need), to be expended, 
otherwise the spell does not activate and nothing happens.

Physical components may be necessary for particular spells. 
Such components may be reusable; for example, the great men-
hirs necessary for summoning He Who Is Not to Be Named 
(Call Hastur, see page 248). Other components may be con-
sumed during the spell, such as the drinking of space-mead.

The time required to cast a spell is variable—it may be 
instantaneous, a few seconds, a game minute, a game week, 
or longer.

The caster must know the spell and recite a sometimes 
complex  and  lengthy  chant  or  rite  in  authoritative  tones. 
Usually  the  caster  must  have  complete  freedom  of  move-
ment, since gesture can be as important as chant.

A casting roll is required when a character attempts to 
cast a newly learned spell for the first time. Once a spell has 
been  successfully  cast  (