the  character  must  make  a  successful  CON  roll  to  remain 
stabilized, otherwise (with a failed CON roll) the character 
is  dying  and  loses  the  temporary  hit  point  and  must  now 
make a CON roll per round thereafter to stave-off death. If 
the  character  survives  until  the  following  round,  First Aid 
can  be  attempted  again  (by  up  to  two  individuals).  This 
can be continued (without constituting a Pushed roll) until 
stabilization or death.

First Aid (and only First Aid) can save the life of a dying 
character, after which they must receive a successful Medi-
cine roll or be hospitalized. Thus, First Aid is an important 
skill to have, alongside Medicine, if you wish to be an effec-
tive medic. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Administering First Aid to a fellow human is always 
of  Regular  difficulty  level.  If  one  were  treating  an 
alien  being  whose  physiology  was  unfamiliar,  the 
difficulty level would be higher.

Pushing examples: taking longer to treat the patient; em-
ploying high-risk methods to stabilize the wound.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: make things 
worse, causing an additional point of damage.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
feels compelled to "heal" the person, even if it means ampu-
tation or worse. In effect their endeavors constitute physical 
attacks which may lead to murder if they are not stopped.

History (05%)
Enables  an  investigator  to  remember  the  significance  of  a 
country,  city,  region,  or  person,  as  pertinent.  A  successful 
roll might be used to help identify tools, techniques, or ideas 
familiar to ancestors, but little known today. 

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  to  recall  some  pertinent  and 

useful information.

i  Hard difficulty: to know some obscure, detailed and 

useful information.

Pushing  examples:  taking  more  time  to  examine;  con-
ducting further research; consulting another expert; hiring 
assistants to conduct detailed research, taking months, and 
at a huge cost.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  consul-
tations  alert  your  adversaries,  who  become  aware  of  your 
intent; your facts are erroneous and lead you into danger; 
much time and money is wasted on fruitless research.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she is 
convinced that they are somehow displaced in time, or per-
haps they start believing they are living in a historic period, 
dressing and speaking in an archaic manner.

Hypnosis (01%) [Uncommon]
The user is able to induce a trancelike state in a willing target 
who  experiences  heightened  suggestibility,  relaxation,  and 
possible  recall  of  forgotten  memories.  The  limits  of  hyp-
notism should be decided by the Keeper to fit their game; 
it  may  be  that  only  willing  subjects  can  be  hypnotized,  or 
the Keeper may allow it to be used on unwilling targets in a 
more aggressive manner.

This  skill  may  be  utilized  as  hypnotherapy  on  those 
suffering  mental  trauma,  reducing  the  effects  of  a  phobia 
or mania in a patient (successful use means that the patient 
overcomes the phobia or mania on one occasion). Note that 
a series of successful hypnotherapy sessions may be needed 
to fully cure someone of a phobia (minimum of 1D6 ses-
sions, at the Keeper’s discretion).

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Hypnosis is opposed with Psychology or POW for 

an unwilling