-shots,” will work with a ran-
dom mix of investigators. In this case, simply allow each player 
to  create  an  investigator,  then  find  a  way  of  bringing  them 
together  and  a  reason  for  them  to  engage  with  the  scenario. 
The benefit of this approach is that players get free rein to make 
their investigators however they wish. This can work well in a 
scenario that takes random people and throws them into a sit-
uation, but is not so good for a more open-ended investigative 
scenario or campaign where the players would struggle for a 
reason why their investigators would work together.

All the Keeper tells the players is that the scenario is 
set in the modern day and that they can create what-
ever investigators they wish. The players end up with 
a  group  consisting  of  a  frail Archaeologist,  a  French 
dancer, an ex-KGB agent, and a middle-aged Ameri-
can housewife. The Keeper smiles and tells them they 
are  all  on  a  transatlantic  flight  as  the  game  begins. 
At  this  stage  the  investigators  don’t  even  know  each 
other, but the isolation of being 27,000 feet up in the 
air throws them together for the scenario. Fun will no 
doubt be had through the clash of personalities. If they 
survive the scenario, it would seem unlikely that they 
would ever have cause to meet again, let alone team 
up to carry out future investigations.

187 

chapter 10: playing the gameInvestigator Groups (III):             
Pre-Generated Investigators
You can create the investigators before play and then distrib-
ute them among the players. This approach works well for 
games where play is restricted to a set time slot, such as at a 
gaming convention.

 Try to remember the following factors when designing 

investigators for other people:

Archetypes  are  quickly  accessible:  The  grizzled  ex-cop, 
curious reporter, etc. 

Balance: Try to balance the group so that each player will 
get a turn in the spotlight. Consider the requirements of the 
scenario in terms of skills and plot-hooks, and share these 
with the investigators. Avoid basing the scenario around one 
investigator, as this may leave the other players feeling they 
are  playing  mere  cameo  roles.  Presenting  balanced  inves-
tigators does not require that every investigator be equally 
good  at  all  things.  Just  be  sure  that  each  investigator  has 
strengths that will come into play; one investigator might be 
good with their fists, while another is strong academically. 

Backstory:  Write  a  backstory  for  each  investigator,  but 
don’t  write  too  much  because  some  players  may  struggle 
to remember or make use of backstory information. If the 
scenario  depends  upon  a  particular  investigator  knowing 
certain  information,  be  sure  to  make  it  very  clear  to  the 
player—don’t hide it in a large body of text. Be sure to allow 
players time to read and digest their backstories at the start 
of play, and consider using bullet points to summarize es-
sential information.

Unallocated skill points: Consider leaving some skill points 
unallocated  to  allow  each  player  to  customize  their  own 
investigator.

Tell  each  investigator  what  he  or  she  knows  about  the 
other investigators: You  may  also  want  to  provide  a  brief 
résumé for each investigator, listing what he or she knows 
about the other investigators, though this is not essential. If 
you do write one, it should be partial, being based on that 
particular investigator’s point of view—an individual’s per-
ception of a particular person can conflict with another’s, or 
be wholly mistaken.

Say  what  they  know,  not  how  they  feel:  Rather  than  dic-
tating