 
and villains in the game, or pull their punches when dealing 
out  damage  from  attacks  and  other  injuries.  Rather,  it  is 
recommended that Keepers give players up to three chances 
to avoid certain death.

Failed Sanity Rolls
A  sense  of  self-control  is  an  essential  quality  of  sanity.  A 
non-player  character  may  hold  a  gun  to  an  investigator’s 
head and demand information regarding a missing segment 
of the R’lyeh Disk, but whether the investigator tells or ac-
cepts a bullet in the head is up to the player. However, when a 
Sanity roll is failed, the investigator loses all self-control and 
may act in a way that is counter to his or her best interests. 
People who lose control may harm themselves or others, 
even loved ones, or act in some other way that is counter to 
how they would act when rational. To simulate this loss of 
self-control,  the  investigator  is  handed  to  you,  the  Keeper, 
for a short time—whenever a Sanity roll is failed you take 
control and dictate the investigator’s next action. As always, 
you  should  aim  to  drive  the  game  towards  the  theme  of 
horror  and  consider  how  an  involuntary  action  could  do 
this. For example, if the investigators are hiding under a bed 
when the cannibal cult arrive home, will one of them cry out 
upon missing a Sanity roll as a result of seeing the cultists 
preparing their lunch?

If the Sanity roll results in insanity, the Keeper gains con-
trol of the investigator’s actions for the duration of the bout 
of  madness.  This  won’t  be  for  long—in  real  time  at  least. 
Once the bout of madness is over, control of the investigator 
is  handed  back  to  the  player.  Note  the  difference  between 
madness, which is of short duration, and the underlying in-
sanity, which is longer—the Keeper controls the investigator 
during madness, the player controls during insanity.

Players may take a cue from their investigator going insane 
to present their character as "mad" all of the time—while they 
can portray their character however they wish, you may want 
to remind such players that being insane does not necessarily 
mean that the character acts out their madness all of the time. 
Indeed, while there is an underlying insanity, the investigator 

209 

The investigators have closed in on the hideout of the Cult 
of the Whispering Tongue and are currently searching the 
secret base for leads on the cult’s plans to unleash devasta-
tion on New York City. What the investigators don’t know 
is that the cult has a shoggoth living in an underground 
pool. The shoggoth is powerful and very likely to kill some, 
if not all, of the investigators if they blunder into it—such 
an outcome will most likely mean the premature end of the 
game. Therefore, the Keeper provides the players with three 
chances to avoid confronting the shoggoth.

The first chance comes when the Keeper discusses the 
players’  plans  for  searching  the  hideout. The  players  are 
excited and it appears they want to rush in, abandoning 
any sense of caution. During the conversation, the Keeper 
rephrases what the players are saying as, “So you think the 
murderous Cult of the Whispering Tongue are hiding out 
here and you want to rush in with guns blazing, with no 
evidence  that  this  in  indeed  the  right  place?”  Hopefully, 
something along these lines will give the players enough of 
a hint that a degree of caution might be advisable. Perhaps 
they should stake out the place first to gather more infor-
mation about the cult’s activities.

Having watched the hideout for a couple of days, the 
players have recognized some of the cultists and are now 
certain  that  they  have  the  right  place.  The  investigators 
quiet