 temporarily insane, beginning a bout 
of madness. As Harvey is alone, the Keeper opts for the 
“summary option” and rolls 4, which indicates some 
form  of  violence.  The  Keeper  decides  that  Harvey 
trashes  the  room  in  his  search  for  hidden  cameras, 
listening devices, and speaker units. The Keeper then 
describes  the  scene  to  the  player, “When  you  recover 
your  wits,  at  least  3  hours  have  passed.  You  find 
yourself  with  the  contents  of  the  office  looking  like  a 
bomb has hit it. There’s a guy lying on the floor with 
a  bloody  wound  on  his  head,  and  he’s  either  dead 
or  unconscious.”  (This  is  a  non-player  character—a 
security guard—that the Keeper has thrown in). “The 
canister is full of bullet holes, and you’re holding the 
smoking barrel of a gun to your own temple.”

Another example: The investigators have retired 
for  the  evening,  each  one  to  their  own  hotel  room. 
Late  that  night  one  of  the  investigators,  Kratos,  is 
haunted by a spectral figure. Kratos fails his Sanity roll 
and loses 5 Sanity points. His player then rolls 23 on 
1D100,  passing  his  Intelligence  roll  (INT).  Kratos  is 
temporarily insane. Kratos is alone, so the Keeper rolls 
1D10  on  Table  VIII:  Bouts  of  Madness—Summary, 
with a result of 6, which indicates Significant People. 
His backstory states that Kratos is in love with a young 
woman by the name of Alice. At present, Kratos is in 
Paris, while Alice is back in London. The Keeper de-
cides that Kratos will flee the hotel and head for the 
train station, boarding the first train for Calais. The 
other investigators might hear Kratos leaving and are 
allowed a Listen roll to do so. One of them succeeds, 
hears Kratos slamming his bedroom door and follows 
him (this would be a good opportunity to use the chase 
rules). The Keeper hands control of Kratos back to the 
player and tells him what Kratos’s bout of madness is 
driving him to do, leaving the rest to the player.

Insanity Phase 2: Underlying Insanity
Once  the  initial  bout  of  madness  is  over,  the  investigator 
enters a lower-level state of underlying insanity. Control of 
the investigator is placed firmly in the hands of the player, 
who may freely choose how to roleplay being insane. While 
the  player  is  not  compelled  to  do  so,  aspects  of  the  initial 
bout of madness might be reincorporated for the duration 
of the underlying insanity. 

While  in  the  fragile  state  of  underlying  insanity  (after 
the initial bout of madness has passed) any further loss of 
Sanity  points  (even  a  single  point)  will  result  in  another 
bout of madness. This mental fragility remains for the full 

Fleeing in panic during a Bout of Madness.

A Bout of Madness—Summary
If the bout of madness happens away from the company of 
other investigators, or if all the investigators present suffer 
a  bout  of  madness  simultaneously,  the  Keeper  can  simply 
fast-forward  the  action  and  describe  the  outcome.  The 
Keeper may describe the crazy things that the investigator 
has done, or simply say where the investigator finds him or 
herself when the bout of madness comes to an end. In this 
way the investigator may be lost in madness and thus not 
under  the  player’s  control  for  minutes  or  hours  (typically 
1D10 hours, or as the Keeper judges appropriate). Note that 
these minutes or hours are not