 After mentally intoning 
the spell for a round, for the spell 
to take effect the caster must win 
an  opposed  POW  roll  with  the 
target. If the caster wins the target 
begins  to  drown—the  target  falls 
to  the  floor,  choking  on  seawater 
and  taking  1D8  damage  each 
round.  The  target  should  make 
an Extreme CON roll (equal to or 
below one-fifth CON) after taking 
damage  each  round;  if  the  roll  is 
successful  the  water  has  been  ex-
pelled and the effects of the spell 
cease.

Alternative  names:  Currency 
of the Blue Sea, The Sailor’s Curse, 
Kiss of Brine. 

Table XII: 
Space-Mead Effectiveness

Magic Points and 
Sanity Points (each to be 
expended by the traveler)

Distance in light 
years  
(not to exceed...)

1

2

3

4

5

100

1,000

10,000

100,000

1,000,000

* and so on: add another pair of points, add another zero. Theoretically, 10 
magic points and 10 Sanity points might be enough to reach any point in 
the universe, at least as we currently understand the universe.

247 

chapter 12: grimoireThese magic points may be sacrificed over many days; the more 
points, the more doses. Each dose allows one person to with-
stand one journey through space of varying distance and time. 
Once  the  space-mead  has  been  enchanted,  the  traveler 
must  find  a  means  of  transportation—usually  a  mount: 
among  others,  the  spell  Summon  Byakhee  can  provide  an 
interstellar steed. The traveler then drinks a dose (presum-
ably  bringing  a  return  dose  along),  climbs  on,  commands 
the mount, and  the journey begins. It is at this point that 
the traveler pays the necessary magic and Sanity point cost 
subject for the distance being traveled.

While in space, the travelers are in mental and physical 
stasis, nearly insensible to their surroundings. Upon arrival 
at the destination, the effects of the brew conclude.

Alternative  names:  Breath  of  the  Void,  The  Traveler’s 

Portion, The Quicksilver Draft of Blackest Night.

Call and Dismiss Deity 
Spells

Call Deity
Cost: 1+ magic points per person; 1D10 Sanity points (cast-
er only)
Casting time: 1-100 minutes

Call spells bring the avatar, god, or Great Old One before the 
caster. Casting this type of spell is perilous indeed, even for 
cultists. Only cult priests or desperate people should choose 
to call a Mythos deity. A handful are cited here. Both Call 
and Dismiss spells are likely to exist for every Great Old One 
and for every form of Mythos god.

A group can assist by adding power to Call spells, with 
the caster acting as the focus for the group. Everyone pres-
ent expends 1 magic point. Those who know the spell can 
sacrifice any number of magic points (including burning hit 
points). The total of the magic points spent is the percentage 
chance that the spell works. For each magic point spent, the 
group must chant for a minute, but never for more than 100 
minutes. On a roll of 100 the spell will always fail with all 
magic points sacrificed in the spell lost.

The  caster  also  loses  1D10  Sanity  points  in  casting 
the  spell.  Everyone  present  loses  Sanity  points  if  the  deity 
appears. The Keeper plays the thing and must create some 
motivation for the thing’s behavior. Mostly, when a Mythos 
deity arrives on Earth, it wants to stay and is usually hungry.

Call Deity Spell Requirements

As mentioned, each deity requires certain conditions to be in 
place for the Call spell