, you should move things on. Do what 
you  can  to  introduce  some  drama  and  push  the  players 
towards some form of action. For example, have a desperate 
non-player character call upon the investigators for aid. An-
other option is to discuss the likelihood of success of their 
various plans. Alternatively, if they are completely stuck or 
cannot agree on how to proceed, you can offer them an Idea 
roll (following page).

A key aspect of your job as Keeper is to build an atmo-
sphere of tension, and the way you pace the game is key to 
this. You may start with a low-key opening and take a slow-
boil  approach,  gradually  building  the  tension  as  the  game 
reaches  a  climax. Alternatively  you  may  kick  the  game  off 
with a bang, starting the story in medias res, guns blazing, 
then alternate between tense dramatic scenes and high-ac-
tion  scenes.  Keep  your  finger  on  the  pulse  of  the  game, 
allowing  it  to  slow  down  at  times,  but  always  be  ready  to 
draw a scene to a close and push the game on.

A one-off game should have a beginning, a middle, and 
an end, with escalating tension throughout. If the game is 
being  run  across  multiple  sessions,  a  different  structure  is 
required.  Rather  than  building  to  an  ending,  the  Keeper 
should have next session in mind. Try to end each session 
on a cliffhanger or some kind of revelation. Leave the players 
with  an  unanswered  question.  The  realization  that  things 
are about to take a turn for the worse or the investigators are 
in much deeper than they first thought can be a real driver. 
If none of these things are available for the session climax, 
then a blood-pumping combat scene or chase can provide 
a great ending. 

The majority of roleplaying games are based upon acqui-
sition of skills and stuff, whereas Call of Cthulhu is a game of 
attrition. Be mindful when pacing or planning sessions that 
the effect of the horror genre on characters is different from 
that of a standard fantasy adventure game. In the latter the 
characters may be fighters and wizards exploring dungeons, 
accruing experience, wealth, and power as they do so. They 
may risk life and limb with every fight, but they soon recover 
and  grow  more  effective  as  the  game  progresses.  Contrast 
this with characters in a horror story, who rarely increase in 
effectiveness and for whom each challenge chips away at their 
physical and mental resources, with injuries taking consider-
able  time  to  heal. A  low-level  monster  may  cease  to  be  the 
threat  that  it  was  for  experienced  characters  in  some  other 
games, but a low-level monster in Call of Cthulhu remains a 
threat no matter how experienced an investigator becomes.

Take  note  of  how  your  players  react  to  events  in  the 
game. If they are blasé about the dangers their investigators 
face then increase the threat level. If the reverse is true and 
they  are  cautious  about  every  minor  action,  so  suspicious 
that they never accept a drink from a non-player character 
or spend ages planning for every eventuality, this may be a 
product of previous gaming experiences in which the games 
moderator was overly harsh. If this is the case, you should 
ease  off  a  little  or  reassure  them  when  the  risks  they  are 
taking are reasonable.

Problems With Players
Solving all potential problems between players is beyond the 
scope of this book. As Keeper, you are responsible for more 
of the game than an individual player, however you should 
not  feel  that  everything  is  your  responsibility.  Whether  a 
game goes well or not is due to your whole gaming group