 a vagrant, screaming at 
the pigeons. All of a sudden a rip appears in the fabric of 
space and things begin to spew forth. Perhaps this man is a 
wizard, opening a gate to the Dreamlands.

Big ending

Beware  of  using  a  climactic  scene  as  a  starting  point  from 
which to create a scenario. It can be done, but it involves a lot 
of work to figure out how to achieve the climax—and what if 
your players do something that will avert the climactic event?

A twist or hideous revelation

Come up with something exciting, mysterious or horrible, then 
create a scenario as a vehicle to deliver it. M. Night Shyamalan 
has used this technique to good effect in his films. For example, 
unbeknownst to them, one of the investigators is the evildoer, 
possessed or controlled by some malign force. The truth will 
most likely only be revealed towards the end of the game.

Begin with the player characters

Have the players generate their investigators and then use these 
characters and their backstories as the inspiration for a scenar-
io. This has the potential to be a strongly player-led game.

Construct Layers of Mystery
At the heart of a Call of Cthulhu scenario is a mystery, some-
thing  the  investigators  must  find  out  in  order  to  progress 
and affect an outcome. Mysteries can be organized like the 
layers of an onion: each clue tears away one layer and leads 
to  a  further  question  or  puzzle  to  solve  (another  layer). 
These layers might go on and on until the investigators feel 
they  have  a  possible  explanation  or  answer,  which  in  turn 
directs them to some form of action.

In Lovecraft’s The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, for example, 
young Ward begins by investigating the ancient writings of his 
wizard ancestor (there’s our story; our onion). As he investigates 
further (peeling away the first layer of the onion), he discovers 
a technique to raise the dead. He tries it (peeling away a second 
layer of the onion), and is able to raise his ancestor, who proves 
to be a near twin of Ward in appearance. This ancestor then 
becomes Ward’s mentor in the arcane arts (the third layer of 
the onion). However, young Ward proves too squeamish and 
his ancestor murders him and takes his place. That’s the end 
of the scenario for Ward, and the end of the first onion for us.

Young  Ward’s  doctor  then  starts  his  investigations, 
researching  along  the  same  lines  Ward  began.  This  is  the 

initial layer of a new onion. Dr. Willett finds that the ancient 
house  of  the  sinister  ancestor  still  stands  and  visits  it  (the 
second layer of this onion). In the house’s vast basements, 
Willett encounters horrific sights and beings, and discovers 
how  to  lay  to  rest  the  evil  ancestor  whom  he  suspects  has 
displaced his patient, young Ward (this is the third layer of 
the new onion). Now full of knowledge and determination, 
Willett  visits  the  insane  asylum  where  the  evil  ancestor 
masquerades as the young Ward. There, Willett recites the 
Resurrection  spell  backward,  destroying  the  ancestor  and 
finishing the second onion and the story as well.

Each layer of a scenario should present the investigators 
with  two  or  three  choices  as  to  where  to  proceed.  Players 
should never be certain that they have delved to the bottom 
of a mystery, except for their own purposes, nor should they 
ever  be  certain  of  the  Keeper’s  intentions.  Obviously,  the 
Keeper cannot make scenarios infinitely deep and complex, 
so must either break off play when the investigators get too 
deep,  or  improvise.  If  breaking  off  from  play,  this 