 these like 
a horror film in which random 
characters have to work          
together to survive; many zombie 
films work on such a premise. 
Some campaigns can begin this 
way too, with the investigators 
drawn together to combat 
the Mythos due to a shared            
experience that has changed 
their view of the world and their 
purpose in life.

Nick says his investigator grew up in a rural area but 
has since moved in search of work. Someone suggests 
a  travelling  salesman  and  Nick  likes  the  idea.  The 
Keeper asks Nick to say a little more about where he 
grew up and what his village was called. Nick states 
that his investigator grew up in a small town called 
Tingewick.  The  Keeper  immediately  changes  the 
name  of  the  town  in  the  scenario  from  Bennington 
to Tingewick. The Keeper asks a few more questions 
of the player. “Who do you remember? Any childhood 
friends, enemies, teachers, etc.?” The Keeper incorpo-
rates  some  of  Nick’s  responses  into  the  plot.  Rather 
than  adding  new  characters,  the  Keeper  simply 
changes some pre-existing non-player characters to fit 
those offered by the player. Nick mentions a girl his 
investigator was sweet on, and the Keeper immediate-
ly latches onto this and has her be the kidnap victim 
(adjusting her age accordingly), asking the player for 
the  girl’s  name  (again,  changing  this  detail  in  the 
scenario to fit the player’s contribution). 

resonance  for  that  particular  player  than  something  you 
impose.

This exchange works both ways. Just as the player should 
pick up on story-hooks that you provide, you should pick 
up on what the players say about their characters. The play-
ers are encouraged to come up with interesting backstories 
for  their  investigators,  and  you  should  listen  to  what  the 
players say and try to weave it into your existing story. These 
story-hooks might be listed as investigator backstories or be 
implied by the choice of profession or skills. 

Weave the investigators and the plot together wherever 
possible. This may feel contrived at times, but good drama 
is often a contrivance. Consider the cast of non-player char-
acters in the scenario. How many of them could be family 
members,  friends,  enemies,  or  associates  that  the  players 
have mentioned in their investigator backstories? You may 
have some detailed non-player characters prepared as part 
of the plot—consider if any of those non-player characters 
could be played as investigators. Don’t allow the non-player 
characters to outshine the investigators.

Ask  the  players  questions  about  their  investigators–—
their  backstories,  aspirations,  friends,  and  rivals,  and  take 
note of any replies that might be incorporated or noted for 
use  later. Alternatively,  you  might  suggest  amendments  to 
be  made  to  an  investigator  that  will  integrate  them  more 
closely to the plot. As stated earlier, this is a two-way process 
and everything is mutable at this stage. Get it right now and 
the game will flow more smoothly.

Many  of  the  details  in  your  scenario,  such  as  place 
names and character names, can easily be changed without 
affecting the core of the scenario. Incorporating names and 
other details that the players come up with can make those 
elements of the scenario feel more real to the players, and 
produces a more collaborative story to which everyone has 
contributed.

Investigator Groups (II):                       
Random Investigators
Some scenarios, especially “one-shots,” will work with a ran-
dom mix of investigators. In this case, simply allow each player 
to  create  an  investigator,  then  find  a  way  of  bringing  them 
together  and  a  reason  for  them  to  engage  with