, just 
a notebook, pen and a lucky penny. If he were to list a car 
among his starting gear, this would have to come out of 
his assets, as a car is not listed within the 1920s Average 
Income bracket. 

Harvey is now ready to begin his adventures!

To  help  illustrate  the  various  rules  of  Call  of  Cthulhu, 
we  are  pleased  to  introduce  you  to  Harvey Walters,  the 
noted 1920s New York journalist and investigator of the 
supernatural. To differentiate between the person playing 
Harvey and the actual character of Harvey (the investiga-
tor in the game), the player is female and her investigator 
is male.

To  start,  we  need  to  roll-up  Harvey’s  characteristics. 
The player takes up a fresh investigator sheet and a pencil, 
and then she rolls some six-sided dice.

Harvey's player rolled a 4 for Harvey, which when mul-
tiplied by 5 gives him a Strength of 20%. This is abysmal. 
Harvey is exceptionally puny and weak, but the player is 
not dismayed—Call of Cthulhu is an unusual game, and 
all kinds of investigators are needed. Luckily for Harvey, the 
player next rolled a 14, which makes a CON of 70%. This is 
good, and Harvey will be fairly hardy. This may help make 
up for his low STR.

Harvey’s other characteristics work out as: SIZ of 80% 
(all that time sitting reading and having no exercise means 
that it is likely that he is overweight); DEX  60%  (a high 
average); APP 85% (whatever his other flaws, Harvey has a 
sparkling personality); INT 85% (an excellent score); POW 
45% (which gives him 9 Magic Points but  a  low  starting 
sanity—he begins with 45 SAN); EDU 80% (Harvey can 
be assumed to have graduated from college). Harvey’s play-
er rolls 9 to determine his Luck value, so Harvey begins the 
game with Luck 45.

His player wants Harvey to be 42 year old. She makes 
two  experience  checks  for  Education.  Harvey’s  EDU  is 
80. Her first roll of 86 earns a reward of 4 points (1D10). 
Harvey’s Education is now 84. Her second roll of 82 fails to 
earn any reward. She then reduces his DEX by 5 to 55 and 
APP by 5 to 80; he’s not as spritely as he once was but he’s 
still a handsome chap.

With all of the characteristics done, his player can now 
write in the half and fifth values for each of them. Harvey’s 
EDU 84 is divided by 2, giving a Half value of 41%. Then 
divided by 5 for the Fifth value (84 divided by 5, rounded 
down, equals 16%). Harvey’s player writes these scores in 
the boxes provided on the sheet and repeats the exercise for 
all the other characteristics. 

Now  Harvey’s  Damage  Bonus  and  Build  are  deter-
mined. Harvey Walters has no damage bonus and 0 build, 
as his STR and SIZ add up to a total of 100. With CON 
70 and SIZ 80 totaling 150, Harvey has 15 hit points (150 
divided by 10 = 15). 

Harvey Walters has STR 20, SIZ 80 and DEX 55. His 
STR and DEX are each less than his SIZ so Harvey’s MOV 
is 7. He is 42 years of age, and so this is reduced by a further 
point to MOV 6. Harvey will not be winning many chases.
Harvey  Walters  is  a  journalist,  working  for  Enigma 
Magazine.  Journalists  use  EDU  ×  4  to  calculate  their 
occupation  skill  points.  Harvey’s  EDU  84  (multi