  skill  roll.  You  are  now 
rolling three  separate dice: 
one  "units"  die  and  two 
"tens"  dice.  If  you  have  a 
bonus die, you should use the "tens" die that yields the better 
(lower) result. 

Figure 1: Bonus Dice

Two rival investigators, Malcolm and Hugh, are vying 
for  the  affection  of  Lady  Greene.  Only  one  can  gain 
her hand in marriage, thus the Keeper determines that 
an opposed roll is needed to determine the outcome of 
their wooing. It is decided that each should make an 
opposed Charm roll. The Keeper reviews the events of 
the scenario so far: Malcolm has visited Lady Greene 
twice,  each  time  lavishing  expensive  gifts  upon  her, 
while Hugh has only visited once and brought no gifts 
at all. The Keeper states that Malcolm has an advan-
tage and will get a bonus die in the opposed roll.

Hugh’s player rolls first against his Charm skill of 

55, getting 45—a Regular success.

Malcolm’s  player  rolls  against  his  Charm  skill 
with  one  bonus  die,  rolling  one  units  die  and  two 
tens dice (see fig 1.) The units die reads 4 and can be 
paired with either of the two tens dice to give scores 
of  44  or  24.  Malcolm’s  player  takes  the  lower  result 
24—a Hard success.

Malcolm wins the opposed roll, and his proposal 

of marriage to Lady Greene is accepted.

Bonus Dice and Penalty Dice              
(Primaily for Use with Opposed Dice Rolls)
Sometimes  the  prevailing  conditions,  environment,  and 
available time can hinder or benefit a skill or characteristic 
roll. Certain conditions mean that the Keeper may grant a 
bonus die or a penalty die to a roll. 

Bonus dice and penalty dice are not trifling small additions 
or subtractions of a few percentage points, and so should not 
be used without good cause. If a factor is so small that it would 
only modify a roll by a few percentage points then don’t bother 
with it. Driving in light rain should not inflict a penalty die, but 
torrential rain so thick that you can barely see, even with the 
wipers on full speed—now there’s your penalty! 

For each penalty die: 

Roll  an  additional  "tens" 
percentage  die  alongside 
the usual pair of percent-
age  dice.  You  are  now 
rolling 3 separate dice: one 
"units" die and two "tens" 
dice. For a penalty, use the 
"tens"  die  that  yields  the 
worse (highest) result. 

91 

Figure 2: Penalty Dice

chapter 5: game systemDifficulty Levels vs. Bonus/Penalty Dice
In the majority of cases, only one person, usually the player, 
makes a skill roll. Any factors that provide an advantage or 
disadvantage for the investigator should be factored into the 
difficulty level set by the Keeper. Bonus dice and penalty dice 
may be awarded in conjunction with difficulty levels, at the 
Keeper’s  discretion,  but  doing  so  should  be  the  exception 
rather than the rule. 

In  the  case  of  an  opposed  roll  (wherein  both  sides  are 
rolling  in  opposition  to  one  another,  as  in  melee  combat) 
difficulty levels are never set. The level of success achieved 
by one side is, in effect, the level of difficulty that the other 
side must compete against. If there are factors that provide a 
distinct advantage or disadvantage for one of the characters 
involved, the Keeper should grant a bonus die or a penalty 
die to that player.

Skill rolls: Set level of difficulty.

Opposed rolls: Award penalty dice or bonus dice.

  An  evil  cultist  is  attempting  to  push  a  door  open 
as Harvey pushes it closed from