 worship 
and breed with the deep ones.

Sanity Loss: 1D6 
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+4 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 15
Study: 10 weeks
Suggested Spells: the printed version has no spells. The 
manuscript  original  contains  Contact  Deep  One, 
Contact Father Dagon, Contact Mother Hydra.

Revelations Of Gla'aki
English, by various authors, 1842
Nine folio volumes were published by subscription, the last 
in 1865. Since then, three more volumes are said to have been 
composed  and  privately  circulated.  Copies  of  the  original 
nine folio volumes are held by many major libraries. Each 
volume is by a different cultist, discussing a different aspect 
of Gla'aki, associated entities, and their cults. This version of 
the text was apparently expurgated, but much information 
survives. 

Sanity Loss: 2D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +5/+10 percentiles

The Revelations of Gla'aki are 
alleged to be the secret writings 
of a cult operating in the Severn 
River Valley, England. While nine 
volumes are known to exist, 
rumors continue to circulate 
of twelve volume sets—these          
additional volumes apparently 
containing the most secret         
aspects of the cult’s practices 
and rituals.

Mythos Rating: 45

Study: 32 weeks 

Suggested  Spells:  Call/Dismiss  Azathoth,  Call/Dismiss 
Daoloth,  Call/Dismiss  Shub-Niggurath,  Contact 
Deity (Eihort), Contact Deity (Gla'aki), Green Decay.

R’lyeh Text
Chinese, author unknown, c. 300 BC
Supposedly the clay tablet originals have been destroyed, but 
scroll  copies  and  recent  English  and  German  translations 
are said to exist. The text apparently concerns Dagon, Hy-
dra, star-spawn, Zoth-Ommog, Ghatanothoa, and Cthulhu, 
and tells of the sinking of Mu and R’lyeh.

Sanity Loss: 2D6

Cthulhu Mythos: +5/+10 percentiles

Mythos Rating: 45

Study: 54 weeks

Suggested Spells: Call Cyaegha, Contact Deity/Cthulhu, 
Contact Deep Ones, Contact Father Dagon, Contact 
Mother Hydra, Wave of Oblivion.

During the federal investigation of  
Innsmouth in 1927-8, copies of the       
R’lyeh Text were seized. During  
interviews with those apprehended in the 
raids, it became apparent that the slim 
book was considered by the inhabitants of 
Innsmouth to be an important holy text. 
Further questioning of reluctant prisoners 
elicited information suggesting that the book 
contained the proper rites and obeisances to 
“Him in the Water” and that (more  
fancifully), the book held a secret that  
allowed men to speak with the fish and 
breathe under the water.
No record exists of what happened 
to the numerous volumes of the R’lyeh 
Text seized during the investigation. It is 
assumed they were destroyed.

233 

chapter 11: Tomes of Eldritch LoreSeven Cryptical Books of Hsan
Chinese, written by Hsan the Greater, c. 2nd century AD 
Seven  scrolls,  each  on  a  different  topic.  An  English  trans-
lation,  Seven  Cryptical  Books  of  Earth,  is  said  to  exist.  The 
books discuss elements of the Mythos of particular impor-
tance or interest to those who live in the Middle Kingdom. 

Sanity Loss: 1D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +2/+6 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 24
Study: 40 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  Call  Down  Spirit  (Summon/Bind 
Byakhee), Call Forth the