  in  determining  locations  of  the  various 
non-player characters who live outside of Miskatonic 
University.  In  addition,  the  Chaosium  publications 
H.P.  Lovecraft’s  Arkham,  and  Miskatonic  University 
would  be  useful  for  Keepers  wishing  to  add  further 
depth  to  the  adventure.  However,  neither  of  these 
Call of Cthulhu source books is essential for the run-
ning of this scenario.

Dramatis Personae
The  following  is  a  list  of  the  principal  characters  the  in-
vestigators  may  encounter,  along  with  descriptions,  their 
relationship to Leiter, and their role in the scenario. Game 
statistics for each can be found in the Appendix at the end 
of the scenario.

Each of the potential culprits is initially described as an 
innocent party (with regard to the Arkham Witch Trial Pa-
pers), followed by an entry explaining their role if chosen as 
the culprit. Once the Keeper has chosen a culprit, it may be 
necessary to rework the rest of the entry for that individual, 
making alterations to the character as required.

Bryce Fallon, Dean of Administration 
at the Miskatonic University
One of the senior administrative officers of the University, 
Fallon is a charming, immaculately turned-out man in his 
early  fifties  to  whom  middle  age  has  been  kind,  and  who 
exudes  the  kind  of  even  temperament  and  calm  authority 

much sought after in the 
likes  of  clergymen  and 
country doctors. He has 
a  pleasant  manner  and 
certain 
thoughtfulness 
of  speech  that  success-
fully hides the full extent 
of  both  his  intelligence 
and  ambition.  An  able 
administrator with a tal-
ent  for  recalling  names 
and  faces,  his  calling 
has  always  been  within 
the  University’s  man-
than 
rather 
agement 
pure  academia 
(with 
mathematics  being  his 
somewhat 
indifferent 
former  specialty).  His  interest  in  the  missing  papers  is 
purely political—the preservation of the reputation of the 
Miskatonic  University  is  his  primary  goal.  Short  of  direct 
implication in murder and bloodletting, he will quite happi-
ly go along with (or at the very least turn a blind eye to) just 
about  anything  that  will  see  the  matter  of  the  Witch  Trial 
Papers "dealt with satisfactorily."

Bryce Fallon

Relationship  to  Leiter:  Fallon  knew  Leiter  profession-
ally but not personally outside of work. He knew him to be 
competent and ambitious, and more than a little bit oily. He 
will  greet  any  revelations  about  Leiter’s  personal  life  with 
distain but not surprise, and is keen for Leiter’s career at the 
MU to be quietly forgotten.

Facts and Clues

T  Fallon will apprise the investigators of the mysteri-
ous  death  (he  has  no  idea  of  the  cause  other  than 
"violent seizure.")

T  Fallon has no knowledge of the true danger or value 
of  the  papers,  nor  of  Leiter’s  connection  to  Cecil 
Hunter.  If  asked,  he  can  confirm  Hunter’s  prior 
career as an art student at MU and his dismissal for 
moral turpitude.

T  Fallon  can  provide  the  investigators  with  keys  to 
Leiter’s office and home, as well as contact with any 
relevant members of the Faculty. 

T  He  will  discuss  the  involvement  of  both  Harland 

Roach and Emilia Court. 

T  While he knows a little about Leiter’s gambling, he