 in Yellow.

Nodens
And upon dolphins’ backs was balanced a vast crenelate shell 
wherein rode the grey and awful form of primal Nodens, 
Lord of the Great Abyss…Then hoary Nodens reached forth a 
wizened hand and helped Olney and his  
host into the vast shell. 

— H.P. Lovecraft, The Strange High House in the Mist

He usually takes the form of a normal human, grey-bearded 
and hoary. Nodens often rides in a chariot formed from a 
huge  seashell  drawn  by  unearthly  monsters  or  fantastic 
beings from earthly legend.

Cult
At times, Nodens is almost friendly to humankind. He has 
visited Earth on occasion, and is known to have aided some 
who  were  pursued  or  harassed  by  the  Great  Old  Ones  or 
Nyarlathotep. Nodens has no cult on Earth. He is served by 
nightgaunts.

CON 225 

NODENS, Lord of the Great Abyss
STR 210 
POW 500  APP 99 
Damage Bonus: +3D6
Build: 4
Magic Points: 100
Move: 12

SIZ 75 
HP 30

DEX 105 

INT 350

ATTACKS 
Fighting  attacks:  Nodens  never  physically  attacks  a  foe.  Faced 
by  a  weak  opponent,  he  summons  nightgaunts  in  sufficient 
quantity to carry off the target. Facing a powerful foe, Nodens 
attempts  to  dismiss  the  enemy:  an  opposed  POW  roll.  With 
a success, the foe remains and Nodens voluntarily departs to 
avoid a struggle. If Nodens is forced to leave because of some 
such being’s resisting his dismissal, he has been known to take 
a favored human with him partway, left in some random loca-
tion. He is recorded as having taken a human on trips to the 
outer reaches of the galaxy (and back again).

Nodens

322 

Call of CthulhuArmor: None to start, but may choose to add armor by spending 1 
magic point per point of armor desired—this armor lasts until 
either moonset or sunrise.

Spells: Can call nightgaunts to his aid at the rate of 1D10 night-
gaunts per magic point expended; Nodens may summon other 
servants at a rate of one per magic point expended; he heals 
himself  by  expending  a  magic  point  per  point  of  damage; 
Keepers  should  add  other  spells  as  thought  characteristic  of 
this god.

Sanity Loss: No Sanity points loss for seeing Nodens. 

Nyarlathotep
A tall, slim figure with the young face of an antique pharaoh, 
gay with prismatic robes and crowned with a pshent that 
glowed with inherent light…the fascination of a dark god 
or fallen archangel, and around whose eyes there lurked the 
languid sparkle of capricious humor.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath

Nyarlathotep is the messenger, heart, and soul 
of the Gods. He is the only one to have a 
true personality, and he claims to have 
a  thousand  different  forms.  To  him, 
causing  madness  and  insanity  is 
more  important  and  enjoyable 
than mere death or destruction.

Only a few of Nyarlathotep’s 
999  forms  have  been  described. 
The  Black  Pharaoh 
is  an 
Egyptian-looking  human.  The 
Bloody  Tongue  is  an  enormous 
monster  with  clawed  append-
ages  and  a  single  long  blood-red 
tentacle  in  place  of  a  face.  This 
tentacle  stretches  forward  when  the 
Thing howls at the moon. The Haunter