 small sampling for Keepers to use on the 
bookshelves of libraries, collectors, and cults.

Reading  an  occult  book  usually  costs  no  Sanity.  Oth-
erwise  the  same  rules  apply  to  occult  books  as  to  Mythos 
books. No indication for time of reading has been given; the 
Keeper should assign the relative interval he or she deems 
appropriate to the book.

Keepers are free to add a Mythos spell in a margin or on 
a flyleaf (written the crabbed handwriting of some scholar 
or  cultist)  if  they  think  it  appropriate,  but  (except  for  the 
Malleus  Maleficarum)  the  tone  of  these  volumes  is  often 
anything but evil or dangerous.

Beatus Methodivo
Latin, attributed to St. Methodius of Olympus, c. 300 AD
Of  Gnostic  complexion,  this  relatively  short  work  is  writ-
ten as a prophetic apocalypse. It foresees the history of the 
world. It recounts how Seth sought a new country in the East 
and came to the country of the initiates, how the children of 
Cain instituted a system of black magic in India. 

Sanity Loss: none
Occult: +2 percentiles

The Emerald Tablet
Many languages, apparently from a Phoenician original, au-
thor or authors unknown, c. 200 AD
The central alchemical text for medieval Europe, mercifully 
short but as cryptic as the Tao Te Ching of classical China. 

Sanity Loss: none
Occult: +1 percentile.

234 

Call of Cthulhu235 

chapter 11: Tomes of Eldritch LoreThe Golden Bough
English, by Sir George Frazer, 1890, in two volumes
An  expanded  thirteen-volume  edition  was  published 
1911-1915.  A  classic  work  of  anthropology  exploring  the 
evolution  of  magical,  religious,  and  scientific  thought.  An 
abridged version is available in most U.S. libraries. 

Sanity Loss: 1D2

Occult: +5 percentiles

I Ching
Classical Mandarin and many translations, including English 
(circa  2000  BC  onwards,  modern  English  translations  avail-
able) 
One  of  the  five  classics  of  Confucian  China. A  subtle  and 
poetical system of divination easily applied but capable of 
deep situational allusion. 

Sanity Loss: none
Occult: +8 percentiles

Isis Unveiled
English, by Madame Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, 1877
A  two-volume  set  comprising  the  author’s  response  to 
materialism  and  the  arrogance  of  contemporary  religious 
and  scientific  communities.  The  contents  (to  name  but  a 
few) also include sections on mesmerism, psychometry, the 
beings who inhabit ethereal space, and talismans.

Sanity Loss: none
Occult: +6 percentiles

The Key of Solomon
Various languages from Latin original, 14th century AD
Claimed to be written by King Solomon. Composed of two 
books,  the  first  indicating  how  to  avoid  drastic  mistakes 
when  dealing  with  spirits  and  the  second  discussing  the 
magical arts, including many complex rituals. 

Sanity Loss: none
Occult: +5 percentiles

Malleus Maleficarum
Various languages from Latin, by Sprenger and Kramer, 1486 
AD
Also  known  as  the  “Hammer  of  Witches”.  A  guide  for 
inquisitors  in  the  Middle  Ages  on  the  identification  and 
torturous persuasion of witches. This terrible book helped 
send  approximately  nine  million  people  to  their  deaths. 
