 as a cat or as a woman 
with a cat’s head. In ancient Egypt she was often shown with 
a  sistrum  in  her  right  hand,  an  aegis  surmounted  with  a 
lion’s head in her left hand, and a small bag slung over her 
left arm. She is also called Bastet or Ubasti. Bast may have 
dominion only over Earth and its dreamlands, for the cats of 
Saturn in the Dreamlands are inimical to Earth’s cats.

Cult
The  goddess  of  ancient  Bubastis,  in  Egypt,  Bast’s  cult 
eventually came to major Roman cities, including Pompeii. 
When she was actively worshiped, she was both a 
deity of the home and a lioness war goddess. Her 
worshipers  always  regarded  her  affectionately. 
Her  cult  seems  not  to  have  survived  among 
humans,  except  in  the  Dreamlands,  but  she 
may  not  care.  All  cats  worship  her  in  their 
savage hearts.

Other Characteristics
Like the other gods, Bast rarely takes action. 
If a person is remarkably cruel to cats, she 
may  act  through  her  feline  minions.  If 
they  cannot  solve  the  difficulty  she 
may come personally. She always ap-
pears  with  an  entourage  of  large, 
sleek  felines—mostly  house  cats, 
but  including  at  least  one  lioness, 

tigress, or other big cat.

Bast

Bast  commands  all  felines,  any-
where in the world. She can summon any num-

ber of cats, but they must travel normally to her. 

She may heal damage to herself or to a cat by expending 

one magic point per point of damage.

CON 125 

BAST, Goddess of Cats
STR 240 
POW 150  APP 99 
Damage Bonus: +3D6 
Build: 4
Magic Points: 30
Move: 20 

SIZ 60 
HP 18

DEX 225 

INT 175

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 3
Fighting attacks: If Bast must participate in a fight, she can trans-
form one or both of her delicate arms and hands into the tawny 
forelimbs of a lioness and swipe with them. Her attacks pene-
trate armor without diminishment of damage and the dripping 
wounds do not heal until treated by magic, or by a successful 
First Aid or Medicine roll. As well as bite and claw, she also has 
the usual range of unarmed attacks open to humanoids.

Fighting 100% (50/20), damage 1D8 + damage bonus.

Armor: None, but note spells entry below. 
Spells: Whatever spells the Keeper wishes.
Sanity Loss: 0/1D6 Sanity loss to see Bast.

Despite  a  purge  of  the  Bast  cult  within  the  city  of 
Bubastis, it is believed that a few individuals escaped 
with  their  lives,  rituals,  and  devotions  to  England. 
Working in secret and recruiting those with a natural 
affinity with cats, the cult grew and spread. Informa-
tion is sketchy; it is believed the cult learned its lesson 
and remained underground, fearful of another purge. 
Whether  the  cult  still  exists  remains  conjecture,  yet 
it  is  written  in  early  accounts  of  folklore  researchers 
of the 1800s that certain rural villages in the west of 
England held many stories concerning cats being the 
predominant familiar of witches and warlocks.

Chaugnar Faugn
The ears were webbed and tentacled, the trunk terminated in 
a huge flaring disk at least a foot in diameter…Its forelimbs 
were bent stiffly at the elbow, and its hands—it had human 
hands—rested palms upward