  cause  a  local  earthquake  of 
shocking  intensity.  In  conjunction  with  other  chthonians, 
he  can  create  strong  earthquakes  of  regional  size,  strong 
enough to topple buildings or destroy bridges.

If  Shudde  M’ell  attacks  directly,  a  vast  hole  opens  up, 
accompanied  by  a  terrible  chanting  noise  and  slobbering, 
sucking sounds. Everything over the hole, which is at least 
1D10+10 yards across, is sucked in and destroyed. Chtho-
nians then pour out of the hole and attack survivors.

SIZ 600 

CON 400 

SHUDDE M'ELL, The Burrower Beneath
STR 450 
DEX 75 
POW 175  HP 100
Damage Bonus: +12D6
Build: 13
Magic Points: 35
Move: 8/8 burrowing

INT 100

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1 
Fighting attacks: May use its bulk and tentacles to bash and crush.
Grab and Feed (mnvr): May grab an opponent with a tentacle and 

drain 3D10 CON per round

Crush: Once per round it may use its bulk to crush all before it.
Fighting 100% (50/20), damage bonus 
Grab and feed (mnvr) damage 6D6 + 3D10 CON drain per round
Crush 90% (45/18), damage 12D6 to all within 12 yards radius 
Armor: 8-point skin; regenerates 5 hit points per round.
Spells: Knows  all  spells  the  Keeper  finds  appropriate;  has  taught 

many concerning the Great Old Ones and servants.
Sanity Loss: 1D3/1D20 Sanity points to see Shudde M’ell.

Tsathoggua

He discerned in a dark recess the formless bulking of a 
couchant mass. And the mass stirred a little at his approach, 
and put forth with infinite slothfulness a huge and toad-
shaped head. And the head opened its eyes very slowly, as if 
half awakened from slumber, so that they were visible as two 
slits of oozing phosphor in the black browless face.

—Clark Ashton Smith, The Seven Geases

He dwells in the black gulf of N’Kai, where he first arrived on 
Earth from Saturn. He is one of the less malevolent beings 
of the Cthulhu Mythos, though still terrible. Tsathoggua is 
usually represented as having a fat furry body and a toad-

326 

Call of CthulhuSpells:  Broad  magical  powers,  as  befits  a  Great  Old  One;  he  is 
recorded as having taught Create Gate and various Summon/
Bind spells to humans.

Sanity Loss: 0/1D10 Sanity points to see Tsathoggua. 

Tulzscha
A belching column of sick greenish flame…spouting volcani-
cally from depths profound and inconceivable, casting no 
shadows as healthy flame should, and coating the nitrous 
stone with a nasty, venomous verdigris. For in all that 
seething combustion no warmth lay, but only the clamminess 
of death and corruption.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Festival.

At the court of Azathoth, it is a blazing green ball of flame, 
dancing  with  brethren  gods  before  the  Daemon  Sultan. 
Called to our world, it assumes a gaseous form, penetrates 
the planet to the core and then erupts from below as a pillar 
of flame. It cannot move from where it emerges.

Cult
A few pockets of cultists worship this obscure entity, gener-
ally in subterranean temples, and especially during equinox-
es,  solstices,  and  important  conjunctions.  Tulzscha  thrives 
on death, corruption, and decay