  no  exact  "right"  or  "wrong"  path  in  Crimson  Let-
ters, regardless of which NPC has been chosen as the thief 
of  the  Witch  Trial  Papers.  This  being  said,  however,  some 
approaches and leads will be more effective than others, and 
clever players, rather than any other factor, can short circuit 
their way to the truth often faster than a Keeper will predict. 
This  is  not  an  occurrence  to  be  avoided  and  the  Keeper 
should not be afraid to expand the narrative in any inter-
esting  directions  the  players  choose  to  explore;  rounding 
out the fictional world of the game to accommodate them 
where needed, but also to subtly bring them back round if 
they stray too far away from the plot needlessly. This latter 
activity is always best done within the game than out of it 
and ideally the players should never guess when it happens 
and, just as in any game, the Keeper should remember that 
the clues, encounters, and key events of the scenario are not 
sealed inviolably in cold print, but should appear where and 
when the Keeper chooses to locate them. 

The  Keeper  should  never  be  afraid  of  adverse  conse-
quences  to  the  investigators’  actions  (up  to  the  point  of 
simply  destroying  them  out  of  hand  of  course,  which  is 
largely  unsatisfactory  for  everybody  in  the  game!),  when 
they  are  merited  and  logical  within  the  story  and  plot  of 

the scenario. The wrong question in the wrong ear, public 
displays of force or general heavy-handedness in conducting 
their business may tip the thief to the investigator’s actions 
and paint them as a threat to be dealt with, by fair means 
or foul. This might turn the tables on the player characters, 
who themselves might then become subject to investigation, 
pursuit, pressure, and even attack, all of which can make for 
a richer and more thrilling game. 

Pacing and menace are something for the Keeper to focus 
on and if the investigators rapidly run through the investigation 
the Keeper should not be afraid to add in extra complications 
and dangers to slow them down a little: throw in some false 
leads, have one of the NPCs be out of town for a few days, kill an 
NPC unexpectedly or put the investigators in unexpected dan-
ger! The earlier stages of this scenario are investigative in nature 
and Keepers wishing to spice things up may create drama and 
action with a manifestation of the Horror (remember this may 
occur in locations where the Witch Trial Papers have been, and 
the Horror will be seeking out and possibly possessing anyone 
who has touched the papers). When events escalate, the police 
are likely to become involved, leading to further complications 
for the players. Keepers should remember the Idea roll if the 
players become stuck.

In desperation the thief might contrive to have the inves-
tigators handle the papers, in an attempt to compel others to 
join the struggle against the Horror.

A  successful  conclusion  of  the  scenario  will  be  all  the 
more  enjoyable  if  the  players  have  to  be  creative  in  their 
struggle to resolve it—after all, roleplaying games are about 
the experience of play, not who’s first over the finish line!  

Doing the Legwork
The  following  is  a  list  of  other  clues,  locations  and  other 
evidence  that  can  be  gleaned  from  general  investigations 
into Leiter’s prior dealings, living space, and movements, as 
well as some possible encounters along the way. The Keeper 
should feel free to add to these or judiciously place the infor-
mation they offer elsewhere in the path of the investigators 
as required.

Locations
Leiter’s Cottage
A small, nicely appointed cottage near the campus, one of 
a  number  of  similar  homes  owned  by