 causes  offense  or  suspicion  by 

studying the target too closely.

G  That thing you were listening for? It heard you and 

it is coming!

The investigators have followed a cultist into  an  old 
house.  The  Keeper  decides  the  cultist  has  hidden 
in  the  master  bedroom  and  that  he  has  left  a  blood 
trail—will the investigators notice it? The Keeper can 
foresee some interesting events happening either way; 
the players are set to explore the house anyway, and 
not getting the clue is not going to spoil anything. This 
information would give them an advantage, though, 
and the Keeper decides to treat it as an obscured clue,  
asking for Spot Hidden rolls with a difficulty level of 
Hard because the players are using only one flashlight 
between them. 

All  the  players  miss  the  roll  and  they  don’t  see  the 
blood  trail.  The  tension  is  raised—the  players  know 
they have missed a clue. The investigators may choose to 
leave the house, or they may choose to spend more time 
searching, allowing the players to push the Spot Hidden 
roll. The consequences of missing the pushed roll could be 
that the investigators take damage from an ambush, or 
provide time for the cultist to make his escape.

Using More Than One Perception Skill 
Which skill to use for perception can be open to question, 
depending on the situation. If a non-player character is about 
to draw a weapon to attack an investigator, the player might 
make a Spot Hidden roll to see the weapon being drawn or a 
Psychology roll to become aware of the non-player charac-
ter’s intention. In this case, allow the player to make one dice 
roll using the higher of the investigator’s two skills.

Harvey  is  a  guest  of  Lord  Foxton,  who  has  chosen 
to  drug  Harvey’s  coffee.  The  Keeper  wants  to  give 
Harvey  a  chance  to  notice  this  and  offers  a  percep-
tion roll. The Keeper allows Harvey’s player to make 
a  combined  dice  roll,  comparing  her  rolled  result  to 
both Spot Hidden and Psychology. If the roll is made 
using Psychology, Harvey would pick up Lord Foxton’s 
anxiety and sense that something is wrong. If it were 
made  using  Spot  Hidden,  Harvey  would  notice  that 
his coffee smells a little strange.

Player Goals For Perception Rolls
Usually  the  goal  for  a  perception  roll  is  simply “to  find  a 
clue”;  however,  a  player  may  create  a  more  specific  goal, 
such  as “I  want  to  search  the  room.  I’m  hoping  to  find  a 
diary or journal that will give some information regarding 
the whereabouts of the person we’re looking for.” If you are 
happy that such a book could be found in the room, accept 
the goal and allow the player to roll the dice. If not, modify 
the goal accordingly or apply the “nothing there” technique 
outlined below.

203 

chapter 10: playing the gameNothing There?
Don’t be tempted to call for Perception rolls when there is 
nothing  to  find.  Remember  that  the  default  goal  of  a  Per-
ception roll is always “to find a clue”—if there is no clue to 
find then there is no roll to be made. The clue, whatever it is, 
should be notable, something that adds an interesting new 
twist or aspect to the story. 

If  a  player  requests  a  Spot  Hidden  roll,  you  may  allow 
one  even  if  there  is  no  clue  present.  The  goal  should  be 
phrased  as “to  look  for  a  clue”  or  if  looking  for  a  specific 
item, perhaps “to look for Jefferson’s journal,” for