 bout of madness comes to an end. In this 
way the investigator may be lost in madness and thus not 
under  the  player’s  control  for  minutes  or  hours  (typically 
1D10 hours, or as the Keeper judges appropriate). Note that 
these minutes or hours are not played out; they are simply 
summarized  by  the  Keeper.  The  Keeper  may  just  describe 
the  unfamiliar  place  in  which  the  investigator  returns  to 
their  senses  with  no  memory  of  where  they  have  been  or 
what they have done.

Most of the outcomes require the investigator to leave the 
place where the onset of insanity occurs. If this is not possible 
the  Keeper  should  adapt  the  outcome  accordingly.  If  there 
is  a  chance  that  another  investigator  might  hear  or  see  the 
insane investigator leaving, they should be given a chance to 
intervene. If the insane investigator is confronted by another 
investigator before their bout of madness is over, the Keeper 
should hand control of the investigator back to the player at 
that moment and allow the players to roleplay the scene. This 
may mean that the intended outcome is cut short.

To determine the nature of the bout of madness, either 
roll  on  Table  VIII:  Bouts  of  Madness—Summary  or  the 
Keeper may choose an appropriate option.

158 

Call of Cthulhuduration of the insanity—1D10 hours in the 
case of temporary insanity—and probably for 
the duration of the scenario or chapter of the 
campaign in the case of indefinite insanity.

It is important to note that the investigator, 
while  insane,  may  act  completely  rationally 
and normally, only outwardly presenting their 
insanity  during  bouts  of  madness.  Further 
advice on roleplaying insane characters is pro-
vided  in  Chapter  10:  Playing  the  Game  (see 
Failed Sanity Rolls, page 209).

Having  recovered  from  his  bout  of 
madness,  Harvey  rejoins  his  friends. 
Harvey’s  player  now  has  full  control 
over  Harvey  and  decides  to  play  up 
Harvey’s paranoia, constantly checking 
the street for cars and disassembling the 
telephone, looking for bugs.

Insanity Side-Effects 1:     
Phobias and Manias

You ask me to explain why I am  
afraid of a draught of cool air

—H.P. Lovecraft, Cool Air

While  the  investigator  is  sane,  a  phobia  or 
mania acts solely as a roleplaying trait. For ex-
ample, if the player wishes for his or her (sane) 
investigator  to  overcome  claustrophobia  and 
crawl through dark tunnels, the phobia won’t 
prevent this. However, while the same investi-
gator is insane, the phobia or mania takes on a 
greater significance. 

Phobic and Manic Responses 
While Insane
Direct exposure (close physical proximity) to 
the subject of the phobia causes panic; equally, 
exposure  to  the  source  of  a  mania  causes  an 
obsessive reaction. 

For  phobias,  actions  other  than  fighting 
or fleeing may only be made with one penalty 
die. This penalty does not apply to Sanity rolls 
or reality check rolls.

While  in  a  state  of  underlying  insanity 
(see  following),  being  exposed  to  the  subject 
of  their  mania  will  cause  an  overwhelming 
response  in  the  investigator.  If  the  Keeper 
prompts the player towards some form of be-
havior  appropriate  to  their  mania,  the  inves-
tigator  will  suffer  one  penalty  die  on  all  dice 
rolls  until  the  obsession  has  been  indulged 
in 