otted down on notepaper and inserted here or there. 

Some  tomes  begin  to  possess  their  own “character”  as 
they  grow  in  age.  Passed  down  through  the  generations, 
between  family  members,  booksellers,  and  collectors,  the 
tomes seem to absorb an imprint of their owners. This can 
be  more  than  simply  the  wandering  marginalia  of  occult 
scholars,  with  some  books  apparently  manifesting  distinct 
“personalities”  that  echo  once-powerful  owners,  such  as 
grand sorcerers and cult potentates. Consider the smell, feel, 
and look of Mythos books. The overall impression ought to 
be distinctly unhealthy. The binding will probably be leath-
er, perhaps human or even that of some unworldly being. 
Does the leather leave a slimy residue when touched? Does 
the book leave a musky odor wherever it has been? Does the 
presence of the tome cause the pages of other, nearby books 
to char and blacken? Perhaps the book appears to move of 
its  own  accord,  never  to  be  found  where  the  investigator 
remembers placing it.

Sorcerers  and  cultists  are  not  librarians.  They  are  un-
concerned with the needs of posterity. They intend to live 

forever and they consider the knowledge contained within 
their  tomes  to  be  theirs  by  right—and  not  to  be  lightly 
passed to the unworthy.

Undiscovered Editions
If  an  original-language  version  is  found  of  a  work  that 
until then was known only in translation, then the original 
version  is  more  informative.  Add  a  few  percentiles  to  the 
Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  reward.  Treat  the  original  edition  as 
another  edition.  The  Keeper  chooses  the  book’s  original 
language and can make up its title in that language as well.

If  a  you  create  a  new  Mythos  tome  for  some  purpose, 
you should have a suitable name for it, know the language of 
its composition, know what it looks and feels like, know how 
many Sanity points are lost in reading it, know how many 
Cthulhu Mythos points its comprehension adds, and be able 
to determine what spells (if any) can be found within it.

Using Mythos Tomes
Despite the dangers, investigators will choose to study this or 
that terrifying book. The process of reading can be leisurely 
and can be suspended at any point for as long as need be.

Consider  that  each  book  is  a  potential  conduit  of 
Mythos power and energy—a physical and mental portal to 
the madness of secrets beyond the reasoning of mortal man. 
Books  of  power  may  exert  a  dark  influence  on  those  who 
possess them, stoking their desire for blasphemous knowl-
edge,  kindling  a  fascination  for  the  occult,  and  ultimately 
driving the owner to delve deep into the Mythos and court 
insanity.  In  many  Lovecraftian  stories,  the  protagonist  is 
thrown headfirst into the horrors of the Mythos as a result 
of some Mythos artifact or tome.

Akin  to  spells,  Mythos  tomes  can  unbalance  a  game  if 
used too freely. Such books are a conduit for Cthulhu Mythos 
knowledge and spells, providing the investigators with a po-
tential source of great power in combating the machinations 
of the Mythos. If everywhere the investigators turn they find 
a Mythos tome, then the game can become predictable and 
the challenge lessened. Obtaining a Mythos book could be 
a scenario in itself, or at least a suitably dangerous sidetrack 
to a campaign, allowing the