be found here). 

The  subbasements  of  the  antiques  shop  are  a  death 
trap—at least one and possibly more of Wick’s servants are 
in  residence  down  here  at  any  time  and  any  alarm  or  the 
sound of gunfire is likely to bring ghouls from below. 

Should Wick’s secret be discovered and exposure threat-
ened, the shop will be gutted by fire and the basements col-
lapsed (before any authorities might pry), leaving no trace 
of the tunnels. 

Keeper’s Note:
Keepers should always remain responsive to the 
actions of their players and flexible in their 
delivery of the written scenario. This may require 
the Keeper to improvise a new aspect of the 
scenario or situation on the fly. A short example 
of actual play is included here to illustrate this. 
Such unscripted incidents can be the highlight 
of a game and talked about by all involved for long 
afterwards.

During a playtest, the investigators decided 
to visit the Hobbhouse Manse late in both the 
scenario and the gaming session. The Keeper didn’t 
want to diminish the tension that had built up 
when the players realized the location was a red 
herring, so he determined it would be the perfect 
place to introduce Oaks and Shaunassy. After 
an uneventful search through the house, the 
investigators emerged to find the Manse’s driveway 
blocked by the gangsters' car. The investigators 
told the gangsters that Leiter was in the morgue 
and agreed to ride back with the gangsters to 
show them, letting Flinders, who had attached 
himself to them by now, follow with their car. 
Since this was the third time they had visited 
the corpse (the first alone and the second with 
Lucy), Dr. Wheatcroft was getting ready to take 
an impromptu vacation, but agreed to one last 
visit, reassured by the number of people who 
would be accompanying him. Shaunassy pulled 
out a newspaper clipping of a picture of Lieter 
receiving an academic award and held it next to 
the corpse’s face so he could make sure it was 
the same man. The corpse took the  
opportunity to grab (and break) Shaunassy’s 
wrist, Dr. Wheatcroft failed his Sanity roll and 
fainted, and a fight ensued!

Other Clues

Visiting the Police

Detective Lt. Bill Somerset is responsible for the Leiter case. 
He can confirm that Leiter died of a heart attack and that as 
far as he is concerned, the case is closed. If questioned about 
the  unusual  circumstances  of  the  case  (the  body  found  in 
a locked office, the look of terror on Leiter’s face, etc.), and 
presuming they have made a good impression, Somerset will 
level  with  the  investigators  and  tell  them  that  he  has  easier 
cases to solve and that he has no mind nor time for chasing 
up freakish ones. 

Of course, if the investigators give Somerset a hard time 
or push him too far, he may take an interest in them, perhaps 
putting a tail on them or looking into their business dealings 
to see if there’s any trouble he can cause them. Somerset is 
easy-going most of the time; however, if he feels someone 
needs teaching a lesson in respect for law, he is not beyond 
using his extensive resources to make life difficult for them.

378 

Call of CthulhuThe Hobbhouse Arkham 
Witch Trial Papers

The  Hobbhouse  Arkham  Witch  Trial  Papers  com-
prise a leather folio, closed with academic satchel-
straps,  containing  a  sheaf  of  some  sixty  unbound 
pages. These collated pages are hand-written docu-
ments dating back to the early seventeen-hundreds 
and comprise a record of personal correspondence 
between the jurist Caleb Hobbhouse and a number 
of notable legal and spiritual authorities in colonial 
New England. 

The letters focus upon the 1690s Arkham Witch 
Trials  (