. 

155 

chapter 8: sanityfailed, the investigator has repressed the memory (a trick the 
mind  uses  to  protect  itself),  and  does  not  become  insane. 
Perversely, if the INT roll succeeds, the investigator recog-
nizes the full significance of what has been seen or experi-
enced and goes temporarily insane. The effects of temporary 
insanity begin immediately and last for 1D10 hours.

Indefinite Insanity 
On  losing  a  fifth  or  more  of  current  Sanity  points  in  one 
game “day,” the investigator becomes indefinitely insane. No 
investigator is simply able to shrug off this amount of san-
ity drain. A “day” in this instance is defined by the Keeper, 
usually lasting until the investigator reaches a place of safety 
in  which  they  can  rest  and  recover  their  wits.  Depending 
on the situation, it may mean surviving until dawn, sitting 
down for a nice cup of tea, or having a good night’s sleep. In-
definite insanity lasts until the character is cured or recovers 
(see Recovery from Indefinite Insanity, page 164).

Permanent Insanity 
When Sanity points are reduced to zero the investigator is 
permanently and incurably insane and ceases to be a player 
character. In the real world, all insanity is indefinite insanity, 
since  no  one  in  real  life  can  hope  to  predict  the  future  as 
accurately as a Call of Cthulhu Keeper can. 

Many  disorders,  especially  congenital  conditions,  offer 
little hope of recovery. Lovecraft concludes more than one 
story with the intimation that a lifetime of madness for the 
narrator will follow. 

Every  Keeper  must  work  out  what  the  end-point  of 
madness is in the game. Now and then a quiet release might 
be made from a local asylum. Some thin, unnaturally pallid 
person, almost unrecognizable after soul-wracking terrors, 
can  walk  shyly  into  downtown Arkham  or  elsewhere,  cast 
keen eyes about, and attempt to regain some semblance of 
his or her former life—however, no player should count on 
such privilege as a right. 

The Effects of Insanity
St John is a mangled corpse; I alone know why, and such is 
my knowledge that I am about to blow out my brains for fear 
I shall be mangled in the same way. Down unlit and illimit-
able corridors of eldritch phantasy sweeps the black, shapeless 
Nemesis that drives me to self-annihilation.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Hound

Both temporary and indefinite insanity take the investigator 
through two distinct phases of insanity. First, the investiga-
tor experiences a short bout of madness (phase one). This 
is then followed by a longer period of underlying insanity 
(phase two), which lasts until the investigator has fully re-
covered (hours in the case of temporary insanity, months in 
the case of indefinite insanity).

Insanity Phase 1: A Bout of Madness
Also known as “the red mist,” “frenzy,” “freak out,”  
and “panic attack.”
On becoming insane, the investigator experiences a bout of 
madness. While experiencing a bout of madness, the inves-
tigator loses all self-control. In game terms this means that 
control of the investigator is handed from the player to the 
Keeper (for a short amount of real-world time). It is up to 
the Keeper whether this control takes the form of dictating 
specific actions or if it means giving the player guidelines on 
how to play out the madness for however long it may last.

On the upside, the investigator cannot lose further San-
ity points while experiencing a bout of madness. The mind 
is  completely  unhinged  at  this  point  and  any  subsequent 
horrors are either forgotten or later believed to be a man-
ifestation  of  the  madness.  This  protection  is  limited—the 
