 Fragments
Holographic manuscript in English, by Dr. Laban Shrewsbury, 
1915 (1938) 
A  single  copy  is  known  to  exist,  deposited  at  Miskatonic 
University  Library  shortly  before  the  author  mysteriously 
disappeared. 

Sanity Loss: 1D8

Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+6 percentiles

Mythos Rating: 27

Study: 15 weeks

Suggested Spells: Brew Space Mead, Call Cthugha, Elder 
Sign, Enchant Whistle, Summon/Bind Byakhee. 

226 

Call of CthulhuCthaat Aquadingen

Middle English, author and translator unknown, c. 14th century
A comprehensive study of the deep ones, but in an incom-
plete and deeply flawed translation. A single bound manu-
script is held by the British Museum. 

Sanity Loss: 2D4 
Cthulhu Mythos: +2/+4 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 18
Study: 29 weeks
Suggested  Spells:  Dreams  from  God  (Contact  Deity/
Cthulhu), Speak with Sea Children (Contact Deep 
Ones), Speak with Father Dagon, Speak with Mother 
Hydra, Speak with God-Child (Contact Star-Spawn 
of Cthulhu).

Cthulhu in the Necronomicon
English, written by Dr.Laban Shrewsbury, 1915 (pub: 1938) 
Handwritten  notes  toward  an  intended  book.  Deposited 
at Miskatonic University Library shortly before the author 
mysteriously disappeared. Tells of Cthulhu’s power to affect 
men’s dreams, warning of a worldwide cult dedicated to the 
creature’s return.

Sanity Loss: 1D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +2/+4 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 18
Study: 14 weeks
Suggested Spells: Contact Deity/Cthulhu, Contact Deep 

Ones, Elder Sign.

Cultes des Goules
French, by François-Honore Balfour, Comte d’Erlette, 1702? 
Published  in  1703  in  France  (Paris?),  in  a  quarto  edition. 
The  Church  immediately  denounced  it.  Catalogs  a  large 
cult practicing necromancy, necrophagy, and necrophilia in 
France. Fourteen copies are known to exist, the most recent 
surfacing in 1906.

Sanity Loss: 1D10
Cthulhu Mythos: +4/+8 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 36
Study: 22 weeks
Suggested Spells: Black Binding, Call/Dismiss Nyogtha, 
Call/Dismiss  Shub-Niggurath,  Contact  Ghoul, 
Resurrection,  Shrivelling,  Summon/Bind  Byakhee, 
Summon/Bind Dark Young, Voorish Sign.

Confessions of the Mad Monk  
Clithanus
Latin, by Clithanus, 400 (1674)
A retreading of material Clithanus gleaned from reading the 
Necronomicon. Contains lengthy treatise on sigils of protec-
tion and the spawn of Cthulhu.

Copies are maintained at the Field Museum of Chicago, 
the British Museum, and the Union Theological Seminary 
in Manhattan.

Sanity Loss: 2D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+6 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 27
Study: 29 weeks
Suggested  Spells:  Call  Down  the  Blasphemies  of  the 
Oceans  (Contact  Star-Spawn  of  Cthulhu),  Sign  of 
the Master (Elder Sign), Warding.

Cthaat Aquadingen 
Two versions follow:

Cthaat Aquadingen

Latin, author unknown, c. 11-12th century
A comprehensive study of the deep ones. Three copies of this