 problems between players is beyond the 
scope of this book. As Keeper, you are responsible for more 
of the game than an individual player, however you should 
not  feel  that  everything  is  your  responsibility.  Whether  a 
game goes well or not is due to your whole gaming group, 
not just you. If problems arise then be ready to stop and talk 
to your players if you feel the need to do so.

If  you  feel  that  one  person  is  dominating  the  game, 
encourage the quieter players to participate. Imagine your 
players are actors on the stage and you are in control of the 
spotlight;  by  addressing  questions  to  different  players  you 
are shifting the light from one player to another.

One investigator can’t be present in more than one place 
at one time, though some players will attempt to have their 
investigator be omnipresent. If this is an issue then be clear 
about  where  investigators  are—you  may  even  consider 
using  a  map  and  counters  to  clearly  illustrate  investigator 
location. If one player’s counter is in the kitchen and anoth-
er is in the attic, then when dealing with the investigator in 
the attic you shine the spotlight on and speak to that player 
only—remind the other player of the situation if he or she 
attempts to butt in.

Handling a group of people is an important skill for a 
Keeper to learn. Hopefully everyone is enthusiastic and full 
of ideas, but if they all speak over each other you will have 
chaos.  Focus  is  the  answer.  Focus  your  attention  on  only 
the players who are in the present scene and ask the other 
players to be patient. Remember you can cut from one scene 
to another whenever you want, but you must take control of 

198 

Call of Cthulhuthis and be aware that you are doing it. 

If  the  investigators  have  split  up,  be  clear  about  which 
investigators  are  at  the  present  scene.  Resolve  the  scene  or 
bring it to an interesting point, perhaps at a moment of great 
conflict, then cut to the other investigators and do the same 
for them. Don’t leave any single player inactive for too long. 
Consider the structure of television drama and place yourself 
in the role of director; you get to call “action” and “cut”. 

Usually  you  will  have  multiple  investigators  in  a  given 
scene. Talk to the players who are involved in the scene and ask 
questions about what each investigator is doing. Do not allow 
a player to dictate the actions of another player’s investigator. 
If one player states that another player’s investigator is doing 
something, turn to the player of that other investigator and 
ask them what they are doing. Remember that not everything 
relies  on  consensus.  If  an  investigator  is  holding  a  grenade 
and the player states, “I’m pulling the pin,” then it is pulled 
regardless of what the other players might say. A player might 
attempt  to  interfere  in  the  activity  of  another  investigator 
through the actions of their own investigator, but one player 
cannot declare the actions of another player’s investigator.

should  seek  a  balance  between  spoon-feeding  clues  to  the 
players and being overly secretive; this may sound easy, but 
it is not. Invariably the players will misinterpret or simply 
forget  clues  that  are  required  for  the  game  to  progress.  It 
may be that as your story unfolds you are unable to provide 
a certain important clue to the players. This may cause the 
game to stall and the fear of this happening can be a source 
of anxiety among Keepers and players alike. A dice roll to 
allow the investigator to gain a clue is all very well, but what 
if  the  players  lose  the  roll?  Do  you  just  ask  them  to  make 
another roll and another until they succeed