 Gla'aki.

They will collect their prisoners and head to the lake to 
convert them before they join their god in the depths of the 
black waters. 

The  investigators  could  wait  until  nightfall  (although 
most  likely  being  unaware  of  the  fact  that  darkness  does 
not impede the undead servants) and the distraction of the 
undead workers with the crystal, to free the prisoners. 

Likewise, there are plenty of tools, including dynamite, 
lying about the site. If the investigators can destroy the pul-
ley and/or smash the crystal (it can be reduced to smaller 
pieces, but never destroyed) then they will also prevent or 
delay  Gla'aki’s  attempts  to  retrieve  it  and  drain  the  power 
from it. Killing the undead workers would also undermine 
Gla'aki’s ability to act.

Should  the  investigators  leave  and  go  for  help,  upon 
their  return,  they  find  the  whole  site  blown  apart  by  the 
remainder of the dynamite. The huts are burnt  down, the 
lake is still, and only a pattern of shambling footsteps in the 
mud (going below the water level) remain.

Conclusions
If  its  undead  servants  were  successful,  Gla'aki  has  taken  one 
small step towards freedom. Many crystal shards are left around 
the world for it to drain before it can finally be free again. It’s a 
long road, but one that has been made a little shorter.

If  the  investigators  were  aware  that  the  prisoners  were 
being  held  on  the  site  but  were  unable  to  save  them,  they 
each suffer 1/1D6 Sanity loss. 

If  Jane  Strong  is  rescued  and  Gla'aki  thwarted,  each 
investigator that fulfills his or her motivation (if motivation 
handouts were given out at the start of the game) receives a 
1D6 SAN reward.

If  the  prisoners  were  saved,  the  investigators  gain  1D6 
Sanity  points,  in  addition  to  the  reward  money.  They  are 
local celebrities and receive glowing write-ups in the Ben-
nington Banner.

A Note on Lethality
This scenario, and in particular the final confrontation, 
is designed for a group of investigators new to Call of 
Cthulhu. As such, the lethality is relatively low. 

However,  for  those  Keepers  who  wish  to  up  the 
ante,  consider  giving  the  servants  of  Gla'aki  some 
Civil War period weaponry. Having deserted from the 
Union army, they may not have left unarmed. As the 
rifle in Turner’s cabin suggests, they might  well have 
some  other  guns  elsewhere  that  work.  As  such,  this 
can turn into a firefight between the servants and the 
investigators. 

Non-Player Characters 
Where groups of non-player characters are listed, the same 
values may be used for each of them, however the Keeper 
may vary the statistics as they wish.

Joseph Turner and his gang, Undead Servants

Turner and his gang arrived here in 1865, avoiding conscrip-
tion into the Union army. They were converted to servants 
of  Gla'aki  and  have  been  here  ever  since.  They  are  more 
monster than human now. 

The  Turner  gang  consists  of  Turner  plus  four  others; 
August, Jacob, Vincent and Louis. Use the entries given for 
servants  of  Gla'aki  in  Chapter  14:  Monsters,  Beasts  and 
Alien Gods.

The servants have weaknesses and can be destroyed. If 
exposed to sunlight, Turner and his gang should have one 
penalty  applied  to  all  their  actions  per  hour  of  exposure.