 apart and was 
scattered  around  the  world.  One  such  piece  landed 
here, with part of the crystal that keeps it bound. If 
we aid it in finding the crystal and deliver it the lake, 
our benefactor can destroy it, weakening the strength 
of  the  prison  that  binds  it.  One  day  it  shall  ascend 
to the stars and we shall bask in its eternal gratitude 
and power. It is the one true God, the one true master 
over life and death. We go to join with it in the black 
waters of the lake. We go now to be made immortal by 
our new God. Gla'aki, may your will be done.

Otherwise, at night, the caskets are all partially open and 

empty as the servants are all at the dig site. 

If August or Jacob are present and their caskets are dis-
covered, they emerge and attempt to win the investigators 
to  their  cause.  They  avoid  combat,  as  they  are  vulnerable 
during the day, instead promoting the benefits of the eter-
nal life that awaits them. Gla'aki’s undead servants are not 
mindless; they are cunning and aim to entice the investiga-
tors to the lake once it grows dark. 

If  the  investigators  start  a  fight  or  attempt  to  leave, 
August  and  Jacob  will  attack  and  try  to  incapacitate  them 
before placing them in the empty caskets. Here, they will be 
imprisoned, awaiting the cover of darkness when they can 
be taken to the lake to be converted. Once their prisoners are 
secure, they return to their own caskets to wait till nightfall. 
Even with three caskets unoccupied, there is still plenty 
of room for the investigators, since each one is large enough 
to squeeze two people inside. Once trapped inside, the blue 
light provides limited illumination. The lid is firmly sealed 
in place when it slides shut, not just by the physical weight 
of  the  lid,  but  by  the  magical  properties  invested  in  it  by 
Gla'aki.  Opening  a  casket  requires  a  Hard  STR  or  POW 

What the investigators find inside Turner's Cabin.

ceiling. There is no evidence of cooking. An old Civil War-
era rifle stands in one corner. It has not been maintained; its 
mechanism is rusted and jammed. 

A Spot Hidden roll reveals a pale-blue light creeping up 
from the gaps in the floorboards. A trapdoor can be found, 
which  leads  down  to  an  earthen  basement.  The  pale-blue 
light emanates from a set of five blue stone caskets that the 
undead  servants  use  to  sleep  in  during  the  day,  shielding 
themselves from the harmful sunlight (they can take cover 
elsewhere but prefer these caskets). These caskets are a gift 
from their god, one that it bestows to its servants. 

During  the  day,  two  of  Turner’s  gang  (August  and  Ja-
cob), lie in their caskets. The other caskets are unoccupied 
but do contain a few items: 

G Trinkets belonging to the members of Turner’s gang, 
dating back to the days of the Civil War: lockets with 
the pictures of loved ones, long since dead; rings or 
other jewelry of the same period.  

G   One  of  Gla'aki’s  spines.  It  is  a  glistening,  metallic, 
sharp spine that appears to have been snapped off at 
one end. A hollow tubular channel runs throughout 
the center of its length. All relevant Science rolls are 
unable to identify the metal. It is not a metal of Earth-
ly  origin  (Sanity  roll,  0/1  SAN  loss  for  those  who 
make their Science (Chemistry or Biology) roll).
G   A  diary,  with  the  name