 the Union Army. 
Many are believed to have fled to the Canadian border. More 
recent articles describe Strong’s plan for the reservoir and the 
fact that he has recently sent out a geological team to survey 
for precious minerals in what will become the reservoir’s bed.
Investigators  may  also  try  to  pick  up  information  by 
word  of  mouth  (such  as  at  the  hardware  and  gun  store). 

It’s common knowledge that hunting parties often venture 
out into the forest and hunters return with plenty of good 
stories. One thing that stands out is that none of the hunt-
ers like to stay out in the forest for long and none of them 
venture too far into the heart of the wood as there is “less 
game to be found there.” Additionally, the investigators may 
hear of a group of artists from the city who have recently 
headed into forest. No one seems to know who the artists are 
or what they are doing. 

Investigators wishing to pick up any more information by 
word of mouth may also hear stories from the more supersti-
tious townsfolk concerning odd events in the woods over the 
years. Such tales might weave fantasies of Indian burial grounds 
(a red herring), an ancient buried evil (potentially alluding to 
the presence of Gla'aki, but also foreshadowing the buried crys-
tal), and ghosts of Civil War deserters that roam throughout 
the night (specifically including the name of Joseph Turner).

The Keeper is encouraged to use rumors to drop subtle 
hints about what dangers might await the investiga-
tors. The players will be wondering what they are fac-
ing and hints will fuel their imaginations. Take note 
of any speculation the players make; sometimes they 
will  think  of  things  that  are  more  frightening  than 
those in the scenario! Always be ready to incorporate 
some  of  these  ideas  later.  Alternatively  you  might 
respond to something a player says in the voice of a 
non-player character, “What’s that sonny? You talkin’ 
‘bout ghosts? I done seen one, one time when I was 
out a fishin’ by the lake…”

Keepers  are  encouraged  to  let  the  investigators  hear 
various rumors relating to Strong’s wayward daughter, his 
financial and business dealings, and the strange goings-on 
in the forest.

By noon, the various groups of volunteers who comprise 
the posse have gathered in the town square. The sheriff di-
rects each group to a general area of the forest in which to 
focus their search. The idea is that the individual groups will 
form a noose that gradually tightens towards the center of 
the forest. The investigator’s group is told to take a north-
easterly route and follow that line to beyond the boundary 
of what will become the reservoir. 

The investigators are among the first groups to be shown 
to  their  starting  point:  the  scene  of  the  shoot-out  of  the 
previous night. The site is a newly formed clearing about a 
hundred yards across on the edge of the forest, forming part 
of a wider area marked for logging. A dirt track from the main 
road  heads  over  a  small  field  to  the  edge  of  the  clearing.  It 
is littered with short stumps and a couple of piles of fallen 
tree-trunks, surrounded by tall, looming trees that stand close 
together. Scattered over the site is evidence of the events of the 
previous night: discarded shotgun shells and bullet casings; 
bullet holes in the trees and stumps; and a couple of heavy 

350 

Call of Cthulhuroundings, call for Listen rolls. Those succeeding hear the 
sound of wood breaking up ahead. 

Anyone  who  made  the  Listen  roll  may  also  attempt  a 
Spot Hidden roll to spot a pair of people with rifles ahead 
of them on the trail. Those who failed the Listen roll may 
attempt a Hard Spot Hidden roll (needing equal to or under 
half their skill to succeed). The pair, a man and