 attack once per 

round.

Fighting attacks: It’s dangerous to get near to these things. Their 
crushing bulk and flailing tentacles may strike at any moment.
Hold and Drain (mnvr): Each round, a chthonian can attack with 
1D8  tentacles,  each  of  which  cause  damage  equal  to  half  the 
creature’s  damage  bonus  (round  down).  If  a  tentacle  strikes 
home, it clings and worms its way into the victim’s vitals, and 
begins to drain off blood and fluids, costing 3D10 CON each 
round. Reaching 0 CON, the victim dies. CON lost to a chtho-
nian is gone for good. While a tentacle is draining a victim, it 
cannot be used to drain other targets, but it could still be used 
to  fight-back,  swinging  the  poor  held  victim  like  a  ball  on  a 
chain at its attacker. 

Tentacles  draining  their  targets  will  continue  to  sap  CON  each 
round.  Each  tentacle  could  attack  a  different  target  or  they 
could all attack the same one.

Crush: A chthonian may use its immense bulk to crush a foe. If 
crushing,  it  can  continue  to  hold  and  drain  victims  that  are 
already caught. The chthonian rears up and crashes down on 
a group: the crush area is circular, striking equally all within. 
The crush area equals a diameter in yards of the chthonian’s 
SIZ divided by fifty. Within the crush area, an investigator must 
succeed with DEX, Dodge, or Jump, or lose hit points equal to 
the creature’s full damage bonus.

Fighting 75% (37/15), damage 2D6 (thrashing tentacles)
Hold & Drain (mnvr) damage 2D6 + blood drain (seizing tentacles)
Crush 80% (40/16), damage: damage bonus (bulk, group)
Dodge 17% (8/3)
Armor:  5-point  hide  and  muscle;  regenerates  5  hit  points  per 
round  after  wounded,  but  ceases  to  work  when  below  1  hit 
point.

Sanity Loss: 1D3/1D20 Sanity points for a full adult; 1/1D10 Sanity 
points for the lesser instars; no Sanity points to see a hatchling.

Chthonian

Near invulnerable, the weaknesses of Cthonians have 
been explored by only a few (mad) wizards. Purported 
vulnerabilities include the Vach-Viraj Chant, the Elder 
Sign, and total immersion in a body of water.

284 

Call of CthulhuColours Out of Space
The shaft of phosphorescence from the well brought a sense of 
doom and abnormality which far outraced any image their 
conscious minds could form. It was no longer shining out, it 
was pouring out; and as the shapeless stream of unplaceable 
colour left the well it seemed to flow directly into the sky.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Colour Out of Space

A colour is a sentient organism that manifests as pure co-
lour—it is not gaseous, it is insubstantial. When it moves, 
it  is  visible  as  an  amorphous,  glistening  patch  of  colour, 
rolling and shining in shades of its pale colours that match 
nothing in the known spectrum. This patch pours over the 
ground or flies in a living fashion. When it feeds, its victim’s 
skin and face glow with the colour.

Though  incorporeal,  its  passing  nonetheless  feels  like 
the  touch  of  a  slimy,  unhealthy  vapor.  Geiger  counters 
register its presence as a distinctive burst of radiation. With 
today’s light-intensification gear, it shows as a bright patch 
of lumin