prompts the player towards some form of be-
havior  appropriate  to  their  mania,  the  inves-
tigator  will  suffer  one  penalty  die  on  all  dice 
rolls  until  the  obsession  has  been  indulged 
in  some  manner,  or  the  investigator  is  well 

Table VIII : 
Bouts of Madness—Summary  
(roll 1D10):

1) Amnesia: The investigator comes to their senses in some unfamil-
iar place with no memory of who they are. Their memories will slowly 
return to them over time.

2) Robbed: The investigator comes to their senses 1D10 hours later, 
having been robbed. They are unharmed. If they were carrying a Trea-
sured Possession (see investigator backstory), make a Luck roll to 
see if it was stolen. Everything else of value is automatically missing.

3) Battered: The investigator comes to their senses 1D10 hours later 
to find themselves battered and bruised. Hit points are reduced to half 
of what they were before going insane, though this does not cause 
a Major wound. They have not been robbed. How the damage was 
sustained is up to the Keeper.

4)  Violence:  The  investigator  explodes  in  a  spree  of  violence  and 
destruction. When the investigator comes to their senses, their ac-
tions may or may not be apparent or remembered. Who or what the 
investigator has inflicted violence upon and whether they have killed 
or simply inflicted harm is up to the Keeper.

5)  Ideology/Beliefs:  Review  the  investigator’s  backstory  entry  for 
Ideology  and  Beliefs.  The  investigator  manifests  one  of  these  in  an 
extreme, crazed, and demonstrative manner. For example, a religious 
person might be found later, preaching the gospel loudly on the subway.

6) Significant People: Consult the investigator’s backstory entry for 
Significant People and why the relationship is so important. In the time 
that passes (1D10 hours or more) the investigator has done their best 
to get close to that person and act upon their relationship in some way.

7)  Institutionalized:  The  investigator  comes  to  their  senses  in  a 
psychiatric ward or police cell. They may slowly recall the events that 
led them there.

8) Flee in panic: When the investigator comes to their senses they are 
far away, perhaps lost in the wilderness or on a train or long-distance bus.

9) Phobia: The investigator gains a new phobia. Roll 1D100 on Table 
IX: Sample Phobias, or the Keeper may choose one. The investigator 
comes to their senses 1D10 hours later, having taken every precaution 
to avoid their new phobia.

10) Mania: The investigator gains a new mania. Roll 1D100 on Table 
X: Sample Manias, or the Keeper may choose one. The investigator 
comes to their senses 1D10 hours later. During this bout of madness, 
the  investigator  will  have  been  fully  indulging  in  their  new  mania. 
Whether this is apparent to other people is up to the Keeper and player.

159 

chapter 8: sanityTable IX: Sample Phobias
A phobia is a lasting irrational fear of something. The Keeper may select randomly (roll 1D100) or choose an appropriate one. 
The Keeper should add the phobia to the investigator’s backstory.

1) Ablutophobia: Fear of washing or 
bathing.
2) Acrophobia: Fear of heights.
3) Aerophobia: Fear of flying.
4) Agoraphobia: Fear of open, public 
(crowded) places.
5) Alektorophobia: Fear of chickens.
6) Alliumphobia: Fear of garlic
7) Amaxophobia: Fear of being in or 
riding in vehicles.
8) Ancraophobia: Fear of wind.
9) Androphobia: Fear of men. 
10) Anglophobia: Fear of England