 investigator has inflicted violence upon and whether they have killed or 
simply inflicted harm is up to the Keeper.

5) Ideology/Beliefs: Review the investigator’s backstory entry for Ideology and Beliefs. The investigator manifests one of these in an extreme, 
crazed and demonstrative manner. For example, a religious person might be found later, preaching the gospel loudly on the subway.

6) Significant People: Consult the investigator’s backstory entry for Significant People and why the relationship is so important. In the time 
that passes (1D10 hours or more) the investigator has done their best to get close to that person and act upon their relationship in some way.

7) Institutionalized: The investigator comes to their senses in a psychiatric ward or police cell. They may slowly recall the events that 
led them there.

8) Flee in panic: When the investigator comes to their senses they are far away, perhaps lost in the wilderness or on a train or long-distance bus.

9) Phobia: The investigator gains a new phobia. Roll 1D100 on Table IX: Sample Phobias, or the Keeper may choose one. The investi-
gator comes to their senses 1D10 hours later, having taken every precaution to avoid their new phobia.

10) Mania: The investigator gains a new mania. Roll 1D100 on Table X: Sample Manias, or the Keeper may choose one. The investigator 
comes to their senses 1D10 hours later. During this bout of madness, the investigator will have been fully indulging in their new mania. 
Whether this is apparent to other people is up to the Keeper and player.

418 

Call of CthulhuSummary of 
 Magic Rules

Casting  time  and  spells  in  combat  (see  Chapter  12: 
Grimoire):  instantaneous—on  the  user’s  DEX+50;  one 
round—it activates on the user’s DEX in the present round; 
two rounds—it activates in the following round on the user’s 
DEX, and so on.

Initial reading of a tome: may require reading roll; variable du-
ration (hours to weeks at the Keeper’s discretion); results in 
Sanity point loss (if a believer); reader gains Cthulhu Mythos 
skill points as noted in the tome description.

Believer: while a nonbeliever, gain Cthulhu Mythos skill but 
do  not  lose  Sanity  points  for  reading  tomes;  with  first  loss 
of Sanity points to direct experience of the Cthulhu Mythos, 
also lose Sanity points equal to Cthulhu Mythos skill.

Increasing POW 
A  spell  requiring  an  opposed  POW  roll  to  affect  a  target  is 
successfully  cast  (the  opposed  roll  is  won)—roll  1D100;  if 
greater than POW (or roll 96 or greater), POW increases by 
1D10 points permanently.

A Luck roll result of 01—roll 1D100; if greater than POW (or 
roll 96 or greater), POW increases by 1D10 points permanently.

Reading Roll:
Printed within the last century and in good condition: 
Regular difficulty.

Handwritten (especially if old): Hard difficulty level.

Most challenging of ancient, moldering tomes: Extreme 
difficulty level.

Full study of a tome: an initial reading must first be complet-
ed; no reading roll required; see Table XI: Mythos Tomes  
(page  237)  for  study  time;  results  in  Sanity  point  loss  (if  a 
believer); if the tome’s Mythos rating is greater than the read-
er’s Cthulhu Mythos skill, the reader gains the full Cthulhu 
Mythos benefit; if Cthulhu Mythos skill is greater than tome’s 
Mythos rating, gain only half Cthulhu Mythos benefit; each 
subsequent full study doubles in study time.

For details of tomes see Chapter 11: Tomes of Eldritch 

Lore and Forgotten Secrets.

Initial reading: Reading roll may be required. Keeper decides