 altar  must  be  positioned  in  dank 
wilderness  under  the  sky.  The  spell  must  be  cast  from  the 
altar at the dark of the moon.

Each  Call  of  the  dark  goddess  requires  fresh  blood  to 
consecrate  the  altar.  An  altar  bathed  in  the  blood  of  the 
equivalent  of  200  SIZ  or  more  adds  20  percentiles  to  the 
chance  to  Call  Shub-Niggurath,  while  each  dark  young 
present adds further 10 percentiles.

Alternative  names:  The  Sacred  Rites  of  Union,  Bring 

Forth The Carnal Desire of the Wood Nymph. 

Call Yog-Sothoth: Calls Yog-Sothoth to a specially construct-
ed stone tower. The tower must be in an open area and the sky 

248 

Call of Cthulhumust be cloudless. The stone tower must be at least ten yards 
high. Each time the spell is cast, the cultists must designate a 
human sacrifice for the god’s taking. This need be no more 
than  an  invitation—gesturing  toward  a  nearby  village,  for 
instance, from which Yog-Sothoth then selects a victim.

At the cult’s option, the stone tower may be enchanted, 
lowering the magic points needed for a successful cast of the 
spell. Each point of POW infused in the tower permanently 
improves the total chance of casting Call Yog-Sothoth from 
it by 1 percentile.

Alternative names: The Forbidden Song of the Key, The 

Yah-Zek Channelling.

Dismiss Deity
Cost: 1 or more magic points per person.
Casting time: 1 minute plus 1 extra round per participant 
who donates magic points

A deity who does not want to leave Earth may be dismissed. 
Every Dismiss spell differs; the caster must know the specific 
Dismiss  spell  for  the  particular  deity.  First,  allot  1  magic 
point  per  25  POW  (round  down)  possessed  by  the  deity. 
This grants an initial 5% chance to dismiss the god and it 
opens the way for the deity’s dismissal. 

Cthugha has 210 POW and so 8 magic points are need-
ed to ‘open the way’ to dismiss this terrible monstrosity.

Once  the  way  is  prepared,  the  sacrifice  of  more  magic 
points can tempt the deity into departure. In this, the second 
stage, each new magic point sacrificed increases the chance 
that  the  deity  leaves  by  5  percentiles.  Sacrificing  10  more 
magic points adds 50 percentiles to the chance. As with the 
Call Deity version of the spell, a group of people can assist 
one another to cast Dismiss Deity.

8 magic points opens the way for Cthugha, represent-
ing  a  5%  chance  for  dismissal.  Sacrificing  10  more 
magic points increases the chance to 55%. To have a 
99% (the maximum achievable) chance of dismissing 
Cthugha, those assembled must sacrifice 8+19 magic 
points in the two stages, a total of 27 magic points.

Roll  1D100  against  the  total  chance  for  the  dismissal. 
As with Call Deity, the caster is the focus of the spell; other 
members of the group can contribute magic points. Dismiss 
Deity costs no Sanity points.

Call  Deity  spells  always  require  special  conditions  and 
rituals; however, the Dismiss portion of the spell can be cast 
anytime, anywhere. 

Dismiss Deity 
Spell Names 

When  composing  alternative  names  for  Dismiss 
Deity spells, consider the following words for inspi-
ration:

Banishment 
Dispel 
Exile 

Repel