 in the 
water.  Alternatively  they  pass  out  and  awaken  at  night  as 
Gla'aki appears.

If they are still bound there when night falls, Turner and 
his gang come to the lake to call forth Gla'aki and offer up 
the  investigators  as  undying  servants.  If  any  of  the  artists 
were not liberated by the investigators they will rise as un-
dead servants at midnight. 

Day 3: The Dig Site
How this scene unfolds is dependent on the actions of the 
investigators;  whether  they  march  blindly  into  the  dig  site 
or  take  a  more  cautious  approach  (see  A  More  Cautious  
Approach, see page 361). 

Attempting to gain open and direct entry

Walking  down  the  road,  the  investigators  will  hear  the 
sound  of  activity  up  ahead.  Rounding  a  corner,  they  find 
one of the undead servants from the survey team, Richard 
Gibson, standing beside a five bar-gate that blocks the road. 
The  road  bends  farther  around  out  of  sight,  however  the 
investigators are able to make out a few huts and a clearing  
from which comes the sound of machinery. 

"KILL US! REMOVE THE SPINES! PLEASE!"

358 

Call of CthulhuIf the investigators are not hostile, Richard will be sur-
prisingly civil and welcoming, although will not allow them 
access  into  the  site.  Remember  that  while  Richard  is  an 
undead servant he can still pass for human—he’s still pretty 
fresh. He will explain that this is a work site where they are 
conducting blasting and not safe for members of the public. 
The  investigators  may  attempt  Fast  Talk,  Persuade, 
Charm,  or  Intimidate  rolls.  Failure  means  that  they  are 
turned away. If they push the roll and fail, time is wasted, 
and other undead servants arrive, leading to a possible con-
frontation.  Success  means  Richard  will  take  them  to  Carl 
White, the site foreman.

Inside the Dig Site
The dig site comprises five temporary huts around the edge 
of a clearing. In the center of the clearing  is a blast crater 
leading to the hole that contains the crystal.

James  Stanton,  Dean  Walters,  and  Carl  White  make 
their way back and forth from the hole to the furthest hut 
(the storage hut), where they are taking ropes and tools to 
attach to the crystal to pull it to the surface. At night they are 
assisted by Turner and his gang.

The first hut is the foreman’s office. There are geological 
survey maps of the woods on display, with numerous places 
marked  (suspected  sites  of  mineral  deposits),  as  well  as 
basic laboratory equipment. Should the investigators get the 
chance to look through the paperwork in here, they will dis-
cover that certain mineral deposits have been found which 
defy  analysis  and  that  the  team  have  been  sent  to  recover 
all deposits in the water drainage basin to prevent possible 
contamination of the reservoir. 

The  second  of  the  five  huts  provides  sleeping  quarters 
for  the  team,  containing  what  minimal  possessions  they 
have brought with them. 

The third hut is a kitchen and mess hall (not used of late). 
The fourth hut has the windows boarded up and is sim-
ply marked as "storage." This hut is used to hold prisoners.
The fifth hut, at the far end, is marked as a "tool shed," con-
taining drilling equipment and other tools, such as dynamite. 

Carl’s Explanation and Entrapment
If the investigators gain access, they may be introduced to 
Carl White, who is pleasant enough to the investigators at 
first and suggests that they step into his office. Given that he 
and