 hold them 
as material witnesses.

Uniformly portraying authorities as sleazy opportunists, 
corrupt fools, and rigid bumpkins enforces a cliché that can 
corrode the heart of the game. Call of Cthulhu assumes that 

190 

Call of Cthulhuhumanity  and  human  civilization  considers  itself  worth 
defending  and  saving.  However  bad  humanity  can  be,  the 
Mythos is far worse. Since investigators risk their lives to save 
such people, some authorities must be shown to be worth 
the struggle. The truth is that some are and some are not. 
If the investigators encounter authorities with well-rounded 
characters, freely capable of good and bad, they can make up 
their own minds about the value of society.

Non-Player Character Reactions to 
the Investigators
You decide how non-player characters react to an investiga-
tor; however, if you want to test the non-player character’s 
reaction  to  an  investigator,  you  can  make  a  concealed  roll 
using either the investigator's APP or Credit Rating. Which 
one you use is determined by the situation and the non-play-
er character; ask yourself whether wealth or looks is more 
likely  to  influence  the  particular  non-player  character?  If 
you are unsure, use the higher of the two. It’s a good idea to 
take note of each investigator’s APP and Credit Rating skill 
at the start of the game.

To perform the test, roll 1D100 and compare it to either 
the investigator's Credit Rating or APP. If the dice result is 
below the target number, the reaction is positive; otherwise 
the  reaction  is  negative.  How  you  portray  a  positive  or 
negative  reaction  in  play  is  up  to  you.  An  initial  negative 
reaction  should  make  the  investigator's  life  more  difficult, 
especially if the player’s intention is to befriend or influence 
the non-player character. This test is intended for use with 
non-player  characters  who  have  no  outstanding  reason  to 
like or dislike the investigator.

Harvey Walters  enters  a  police  station  late  at  night. 
The place is busy with arrested late-night brawlers and 
drunks. The Keeper wants to randomly determine the 
desk sergeant's reaction to Harvey; the desk sergeant is 
more likely to be impressed by wealth than looks and 
so  Credit  Rating  is  more  important  in  this  instance 
than APP. Harvey has a Credit Rating score of 41. The 
Keeper  rolls  83—well  above  41,  indicating  a  failure 
and thus a poor reaction. Harvey will get short shrift 
from this overworked and already agitated officer.

Playing Within the Limits of  
Character Knowledge
When  roleplaying  non-player  characters,  remember  that 
they  don’t  know  everything  that  you  know  as  Keeper.  It’s 
easy to make non-player characters infallible, but it can be 
a lot more fun to play up their flaws. Non-player characters 
can make mistakes, misunderstand, and fail just as readily as 
the investigators. Cultists are only human, so let them make 
human  mistakes  too.  Their  mistakes  may  serve  to  further 
confound the players, who may seek some rationale for the 
non-player characters’ curiously mistaken activities.

Using Props to 
Present NPCs
Games of Call of Cthulhu can feature a wide variety 
of  non-player  characters—that’s  before  we  even  get 
to the monsters! Keeping track of who’s who can be 
daunting for both the Keeper and the players. Prepar-
ing some simple props ahead of the game can help.

A  quick  and  easy  way  to  differentiate  between 
non-player characters is to find a portrait for each of 
them. Most published scenarios include a drawing or 
photograph of each of the important non-player char-
acters that the investigators will meet. Having a copy