  simply  the  delay 
and inconvenience of not moving to the next location.

Skills and Barriers

G  Jump skill to leap across a chasm or jump from one 

roof to another.

G  STR to force open a door.
G  Locksmith skill to open a locked door or window.

There can be more than one way to get past some barriers. 
A  locked  door  might  be  picked  (using  Locksmith  skill)  or 
smashed open (see Breaking down Barriers below). Equally, 
some characters might seek to climb over a fence (Climb skill) 
while others might simply smash their way through.

136 

Call of Cthulhu"What are you doing?! Get out of the street!"

Sample Barriers for Car Chases

G  Traffic jam with no room to weave between vehicles.
G  Police roadblock.
G  A fallen tree.
G  A rockslide.

Sample Barriers for Foot Chases

G  A high fence or wall.
G  A chasm.
G  A locked door.

Breaking Down Barriers
Whether  it  be  kicking  down  a  locked  door  or  ramming 
through  a  police  roadblock,  sometimes  brute  force  is  the 
best solution. No attack roll is required. For each point of 
their build, vehicles inflict 1D10 damage to a barrier.

Vehicles are assumed to be travelling at high speed when 
attempting to break through a barrier; therefore, if a vehicle 
attacks a barrier and fails to destroy it, the vehicle is wrecked. 

137 

The  angry  farmer  is  still  pursuing  Harvey. A  post-
and-rail fence blocks his path.
Harvey’s turn:

The  fence  looks  old;  Harvey  charges  forward, 
aiming to burst through it. Harvey inflicts 3 (1D3) 
hit points of damage on the fence. The Keeper decides 
the fence is weak and only had 5 hit points, and so 
is  now  down  to  2.  The  rails  crack  but  don’t  break. 
Harvey remains on the location on which he began 
the round.
Farmer’s turn:

The  farmer  has  a  debt  of  1  movement  action 
due  to  slipping  over  in  the  mud  last  round,  so  has 
one  movement  action  and  is  on  the  same  location 
as Harvey. He spends his movement action to attack 
Harvey, but is unsuccessful.

Hazards:

End of 
the Round:

mud

fence

Harvey
Farmer

chapter 7: chasesIf the barrier is destroyed, the vehicle suffers an amount 
of  damage  equal  to  half  the  barrier’s  hit  points  prior  to 
impact.

When a barrier is reduced to 0 hit points it is no longer a 
barrier. The debris that results from smashing a barrier may 
present a hazard to those that follow afterwards.

Sample Barriers and Hit Points:

G  Internal door or thin wooden fence: 5 hit points.
G  Standard back door: 10 hit points.
G  Strong domestic external door: 15 hit points.
G  9” brick wall: 25 hit points.
G  Mature tree: 50 hit points.
G  Concrete bridge support: 100 hit points.

Part 4: Conflict
The characters or vehicles must be on the same location to 
attack one another, unless firearms are involved. Initiating 
an attack costs 1 movement action. Characters are limited 
to  their  usual  number  of  attacks  per  round.  Attacks  are 
resolved as they are in regular combat.

A character should always be given the opportunity to 
respond when challenged (fighting back or dodging) regard-
less of whether they have any movement actions remaining. 
Large monsters or creatures might attack a vehicle aiming 
to inflict damage or to use a fighting maneuver to push, tip or 
even pick up and throw a vehicle (see Builds, page 33).

Vehicles may engage in combat using the regular combat 
