 Spells  and  Artifacts: 
Such  items  might  be  lost  or  destroyed 
in a fit of pique. The investigator might 
involuntarily  cast  any  spells  that  they 
know, activate artifacts, or study a tome 
that they had previously shunned.

Encounters  with  Strange  Entities: 
Encounters  with  a  monster  or  deities 
should  be  recorded  here  regardless  of 
whether  insanity  results  or  not.  This 
also provides a good place to record the 
amount  of  Sanity  points  lost  to  a  par-
ticular type of entity (see Getting Used 
to the Awfulness, page 169).

A bout of madness can take one of 
two forms depending on the situation, 
either in real time (round-by-round) or 
in summary.

Table VII: 
Bouts of Madness— 
Real Time (roll 1D10):
1)  Amnesia:  The  investigator  has  no  memory  of  events  that  have 
taken place since they were last in a place of safety. For example, it 
seems to them that one moment they were eating breakfast and the 
next they are facing a monster. This lasts for 1D10 rounds.

2)  Psychosomatic  disability:  The  investigator  suffers  psychosomatic 
blindness, deafness, or loss of the use of a limb or limbs for 1D10 rounds.

3) Violence: A red mist descends on the investigator and they ex-
plode in a spree of uncontrolled violence and destruction directed at 
their surroundings, allies or foes alike for 1D10 rounds. 

4) Paranoia: The investigator suffers severe paranoia for 1D10 rounds; 
everyone is out to get them; no one can be trusted; they are being spied 
on; someone has betrayed them; what they are seeing is a trick.

5) Significant Person: Review the investigator’s backstory entry for 
Significant  People.  The  investigator  mistakes  another  person  in  the 
scene for their Significant Person. Consider the nature of the relation-
ship; the investigator acts upon it. This lasts 1D10 rounds. 

6) Faint: The investigator faints. They recover after 1D10 rounds.

7)  Flee  in  panic:  The  investigator  is  compelled  to  get  as  far  away  as 
possible by whatever means are available, even if it means taking the only 
vehicle and leaving everyone else behind. They travel for 1D10 rounds.

8)  Physical  hysterics  or  emotional  outburst:  The  investigator  is 
incapacitated from laughing, crying, screaming, etc. for 1D10 rounds.

9) Phobia: Investigator gains a new phobia. Roll 1D100 on Table IX: Sam-
ple Phobias, or the Keeper may choose one. Even if the source of the phobia 
is not present, the investigator imagines it is there for the next 1D10 rounds.

10) Mania: The investigator gains a new mania. Roll 1D100 on Table 
X: Sample Manias, or the Keeper may choose one. The investigator 
seeks to indulge in their new mania for the next 1D10 rounds.

157 

chapter 8: sanityHarvey is investigating an office at night. Opening a 
locked cabinet, he finds a metal canister. As he touches 
it a metallic voice speaks to him—the voice of a recent-
ly deceased friend. The player fails a Sanity roll, and 
Harvey loses 6 points of Sanity. The Keeper asks for an 
Intelligence (INT) roll, which Harvey’s player makes 
successfully—Harvey  has  realized  what  this  means! 
Harvey becomes temporarily insane, beginning a bout 
of madness. As Harvey is alone, the Keeper opts for the 
“summary option” and rolls 4, which indicates some 
form  of  violence.  The  Keeper  decides  that  Harvey 
trashes  the  room  in  his  search 