 coming.  The  Keeper  may  allow  a  skill 
roll to determine if the target anticipates the attack, using 
either  Listen  or  Spot  Hidden  to  hear  or  see  it  coming,  or 
Psychology to perceive the attacker’s intent. The Stealth skill 
of the attacker can be used to set the difficulty level for the 
investigator’s  Listen,  Spot  Hidden,  or  Psychology  skill,  or 
vice versa if the investigator is the one making the surprise 
attack  (remembering  that  the  player  should  be  rolling  the 
dice where possible). 

Depending on the outcome of the roll:
T  If the target anticipates the attack, they may choose 

to dodge or fight back.

T  If the target fails to anticipate the attack, the Keeper 
may allow the attack to be an automatic success (un-
less a fumble is rolled) or award the attacker a bonus 
die,  depending  on  the  situation.  If  the  attacker  is 
making a ranged attack (for example with a gun or 
throwing knife), a roll should always be made to hit.

Harvey struggles with the thug as the cultist flees.

Harvey: DEX 55

Fighting (Brawl) skill: 25 (Regular) / 12 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 27 (Regular) / 13 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Build: 0
Thug: DEX 50     

Fighting skill: 35 (Regular) / 17 (Hard) / 7 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 25 (Regular) / 12 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Build: 1

Harvey is following a cultist that he knows to be carrying a copy of the Book of Eibon in a briefcase through Boston. 
When he loses sight of the cultist in the crowd, Harvey makes a Spot Hidden roll and fails. Harvey runs down the street 
looking in every side alley. The Keeper grants a pushed Spot Hidden roll, which is also failed. As a consequence the Keeper 
tells how Harvey follows his target into the shadows of one of those alleys, only to be jumped by a knife-wielding thug 
demanding money. 
The first round:

Harvey has the higher DEX and therefore goes first. 

Harvey’s Action:

Harvey tries to push the thug out of his way and run past; it’s a risk, but Harvey knows that he will lose the trail if he 

delays. This is a Fighting Maneuver, the goal being to push the thug away long enough for Harvey to run past.

The thug has a Build 1. This is one point higher than Harvey’s Build (of zero) so Harvey will have one penalty die. 
The thug is fighting back, attempting to stab Harvey. The thug has a knife and so uses his Fighting (Brawl) skill to attack.

Harvey’s player rolls with a penalty die, getting 12 and 22. He must take the higher roll—a Regular success. 
The Keeper rolls 03 for the thug—an Extreme success. 
 While trying to push the thug aside, Harvey is stabbed for 6 points of damage (1D4 for the switchblade and 1D4 
damage bonus). If this had been the thug’s action, the Extreme success would have resulted in an impale for 8 + 1D4 
damage (maximum weapon damage and maximum damage bonus plus a roll for weapon damage).
The thug’s action:

The  thug  threatens  Harvey  with  the  knife  and  demands  money.  Harvey,  knowing  that  he  is  badly  injured  and 

outmatched, surrenders his wallet.

107 

chapter 6: combat 
 
 
 
 
 
Ranged and Thrown Weapons
Ranged missile attacks (such as bows) are treated like firearms 
(target has the option of Diving for Cover, page 113).

Thrown weapons may be opposed with the Dodge skill 
in the same way as Fighting attacks (see Resolving a Fighting 
Attack Made Against a Target that is Dodging