 door 
opens, the Keeper asks for a Stealth roll. The Keeper 
figures  that  the  opposing  factor  would  be  the  Spot 
Hidden skill of the approaching non-player character. 
In this case the non-player character is a maid. The 
Keeper doesn’t have any statistics for the maid, but her 
profession does not imply or require a high Spot Hid-
den skill, thus the difficulty level is Regular (requiring 
a  roll  equal  to  or  less  than  the  investigator’s  Stealth 
skill).  If  the  person  entering  were  a  police  detective, 
the  difficulty  level  would  be  Hard  (requiring  a  roll 
equal  to  or  less  half  than  the  investigator’s  skill),  as 
Spot Hidden can be assumed to be a key aspect of the 
detective’s profession.

189 

chapter 10: playing the gameis not the case, the skill is below 50%, so a Regular difficulty 
level is set. Only in truly exceptional circumstances should 
the difficulty level be set to Extreme (few non-player charac-
ters will have even a single skill of 90% or above).

If  combat  rolls  are  called  for,  arbitrarily  assign  some 
combat  values  on  the  spot:  average  Joe  (unskilled)  25%; 
barroom brawler or hired thug 40%; trained killer 70%.

While prepared non-player characters will be provided 
with notes for you to interpret, ad-hoc non-player charac-
ters won’t have their personalities and goals predetermined. 
How you play these characters is up to you, but if you wish 
to introduce a random element, refer to Non-Player Char-
acter Reactions to the Investigators (see following page).

Roleplaying Non-Player Characters
Roleplay  is  at  the  heart  of  this  game,  and  it’s  your  job  as 
Keeper  to  reinforce  this. While  the  players  get  to  play  one 
character  each,  you  get  to  play  everyone  else,  and  the  key 
thing is that you roleplay the non-player characters. Rather 
than  telling  the  players  what  they  learn  from  the  barman, 
take the role of the barman yourself. Try to alter your voice, 
perhaps  speaking  with  an  appropriate  accent  or  changing 
the  tone  and  volume  of  your  voice.  Don’t  be  afraid  to  act 
the part, using gestures and mannerisms to help the players 
build a mental image of the person they are interacting with. 
It’s common for players to view the Keeper as being in 
charge of the game and as such they will look to you for how 
to play, modeling their performances on yours. Some people 
are a little shy, but when they see and hear you talking “in 
character,”  they  will  feel  encouraged  to  do  likewise.  Teach 
by example and reward them for getting into the spirit of 
the game. If a player really gets into character and makes a 
strong argument, then you might reward the player by for-
going a Persuade roll, or at least lower the difficulty level of 
the roll. Don’t feel compelled to reward strong roleplaying 
every time;  roleplaying is enjoyable in itself and shouldn’t 
require constant reward.

When  possible,  try  to  bring  previously  established 
non-player  characters  back  into  play.  Doing  this  builds  the 
feeling of consistency and continuity. Consider how television 
shows do this. When investigators want to know the word on 
the street, they may visit the same bar where they are familiar 
with Bernie the barkeep. Ber-
nie soon becomes a character 
in his own right and his story 
becomes entwined with that 
of  the  investigators.  Plac-
ing  non-player  character 
contacts at risk will provide 
further  motivation  for  the 
players.  When