 Note that 
a series of successful hypnotherapy sessions may be needed 
to fully cure someone of a phobia (minimum of 1D6 ses-
sions, at the Keeper’s discretion).

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Hypnosis is opposed with Psychology or POW for 

an unwilling subject. 

Pushing examples: increasing your influence on the target 
by  ensuring  their  full  and  undivided  attention;  assaulting 

65 

chapter 4: skillsthe  target’s  senses  with  confusing  lights  or  props;  the  use 
of drugs to make the target more susceptible to suggestion.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: some past 
memory  or  trauma  is  bought  to  the  surface,  causing  the 
target 1D6 Sanity loss; the target falls into a trance, causing 
them  to  walk  in  front  of  a  bus  at  a  later  time;  the  target’s 
mind  (or  the  investigator’s  mind)  is  temporarily  emptied, 
allowing possession by a malevolent entity.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, his or her mind 

regresses to a childlike state until treatment is administered.

Intimidate (15%)
Intimidation can take many forms, including physical force, 
psychological manipulation, and threats. It is used to fright-
en or compel a person to act in a certain way. Intimidate is 
opposed by Intimidate or Psychology.

Backing  up  intimidation  with  a  weapon  or  some  oth-
er  powerful  threat  or  incentive  may  reduce  the  difficulty 
level.  When  Pushing  an  Intimidation  roll,  one  possible 
consequence of failure is carrying out one’s threat, perhaps 
beyond the level of that which was intended.

Intimidate  may  be  used  to  force  down  the  price  of  an 
item or service. If successful, the seller may reduce the price, 
or hand the item over free of charge, but depending on the 
situation they may later report the incident to the police or 
to members of the local organized crime gang.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
See  Charm,  Fast  Talk,  Intimidate  and  Persuade  Skills: 
Difficulty Levels, page 93. 

Pushing examples: Causing actual physical harm to the tar-
get or to something or someone that the target cares about. 
Remember that this is Intimidation; if the investigator be-
gins to take an alternative approach, the Keeper may ask for 
a different skill to be used. If the threats are retracted and the 
investigator then tries to befriend the target, it may become 
Charm;  or  if  a  protracted  and  unthreatening  discussion 
ensues, it may become Persuade. Switching from one to the 
other to gain a second roll still constitutes a Pushed roll.

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  accidentally 
pulling the trigger of the gun you’re waving in the target’s face; 
the target’s mind snaps, resulting in violence or inane babbling, 
after which no more can be gained; the target simply laughs in 
your face and won’t break no matter what you do; the target 
somehow turns the tables and intimidates the intimidator.

It is important to note that Pushing an Intimidate roll 
means taking things to the limit. This could involve days of 
interrogation, or an ultimatum with a gun to the head. Ei-
ther way, a Pushed roll either gains the required information 
or renders some kind of end to the situation.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she be-
comes intensely fearful of the target and does their bidding.

Jump (20%)
With success, the investigator may leap up or down vertically, 
or jump horizontally from a standing or running start. When 
falling, Jump may be used to lessen the potential fall damage.
Judgment  must