 Kevin Ross, Mark Morrison, 
William  Hamblin,  Scott  David  Aniolowski,  Michael  Tice, 
Shannon Appel, Eric Rowe, Bruce Ballon, William G. Dunn, 
Sam  Johnson,  Brian  M.  Sammons,  Jan  Engan,  Bill  Barton, 
Les Brooks, and friends.

Original compositions from earlier editions revised and/
or used in this edition: Keith Herber wrote the Necronom-
icon  chapter,  Mythos  Prehistory,  H.  P.  Lovecraft  and  the 
Cthulhu  Mythos,  Prehistory  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos,  and 
(with Kevin Ross) Books of the Cthulhu Mythos. Les Brooks 
compiled sample gear and prices. Kevin Ross tracked down 
many quotes and sources, and added material and statistics. 
Scott Aniolowski concentrated on monster descriptions and 
statistics. Long ago Bill Dunn wrote the Guide to Sanity Loss-
es. Michael Tice, Eric Rowe, and Shannon Appel assembled 
the Sanity information. Shannon Appel also constructed the 
Alien Technology section, using some inventions from past 
supplements, and did revisionary work on Deities, Creatures, 
and  Mythos  Prehistory.  Bruce  Ballon  originally  revised  the 
Sanity chapter and wrote the Dangerousness Criteria exam-
ple,  the  timeline,  and  summaries  of  drugs  and  treatments. 
Jan  Engan  contributed  the  occult  book  summaries.  Brian 
Sammons  originally  created  the  Mythos  tomes  table.  Sam 
Johnson  wrote  some  of  the  stats  for  the  weapon  table.  Bill 
Barton  helped  provide  the  stats  for  Chaugnar  Faugn,  the 
Colour, and others.

Period photographs were taken from Wiki Commons or 

Flickr Commons and are in the public domain. 

The reproduction of material from within this book for the purposes of personal or corporate profit, by photographic, 
optical, electronic, or other media or methods of storage and retrieval, is prohibited.
Address questions and comments by mail to:
Chaosium, Inc.
22568 Mission Blvd. #423
Hayward CA 94541 U.S.A.
Please do not phone in game questions; the quickest answer may not be the best answer. Our web site www.chaosium.com 
always contains latest release information and current prices. 
Chaosium Publication 23135 ISBN 9781568824307
Published in October 2014. 
Printed in China.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Call  of  Cthulhu  (7th  Edition)  is  copyright  ©1981,  1983, 
1992,  1993,  1995,  1998,  1999,  2001,  2004,  2005,  2014  by 
Chaosium Inc.; all rights reserved. 

Call of Cthulhu is published by Chaosium Inc.

Call of Cthulhu® is the registered trademark of Chaosium Inc.

Similarities  between  characters  in  Call  of  Cthulhu  and 
persons living or dead are strictly coincidental.

All material concerning Shudde-M’ell and the Cthonians, 
and all other inventions of Brian Lumley as portrayed in his 
works, specifically The Burrowers Beneath, are used with his 
kind permission. J. Ramsey Campbell’s “Cold Print” ©1969 
August  Derleth.  William  Lumley’s  and  H.  P.  Lovecraft’s 
“The  Diary  of  Alonzo  Typer”  ©1970  by  August  Derleth. 
Colin Wilson’s “The Return of the Lloigor” ©1969 August 
Derleth.  Frank  Belknap  Long’s  “Hounds  of  Tindalos” 
©1946 Estate of Frank Belknap Long. Clark Ashton Smith’s 
“The  Return  of  the 