  to  ensure  fairness  and 
balance,  as  well  as  to  resolve  conflicts  and 
challenges as they arise in play. 

When to Roll Dice

There is a large amount of fun to be had playing a roleplay-
ing  game,  and  much  of  it  is  derived  from  discussing  your 
character’s actions with your fellow players (and the Keeper) 
without  rolling  any  dice  whatsoever.  Players  declare  what 
their investigators are doing and often speak "in character" 
to  better  express  themselves.  The  Keeper  states  what  the 
non-player characters (NPCs) are doing, and describes the 
world  around  the  investigators.  So  far  so  good.  Everyone 
accepts what everyone else says and builds upon it to create 
an interesting story. Until, of course, they don’t accept what 
someone else is saying. For example, an investigator doesn’t 
believe what Old Man Marsh (played by the Keeper) is saying 
about the whereabouts of the missing library books. When 
someone  says  something  that  you  don’t  like,  you  can  ask 
for clarification or you can disagree—but ultimately, if you 
don’t accept what someone says about what’s happening in 
the story, the situation can be resolved with dice. Likewise, 
you  could  simply  say  that  your  investigator  managed  to 
climb to the top of the church steeple in the pouring rain 
at  midnight—however  if  there’s  no  dice  roll  to  test  your 
investigator’s skill, there’s no tension or drama either!

Equally there’s no need to roll dice for everything. For 
example, each investigator has a Drive Auto skill,  but dice 
don’t need to be rolled every time an investigator gets in a 
car—that would be just dull! If you say your investigator is 
driving to the local historical society, unless someone takes 
issue with you, then it’s done. Simply move on with the sto-
ry. Normal day-to-day stuff that everyone "just does" should 
be just that—no dice needed.

However,  if  the  Keeper  describes  a  car  full  of  cultists 
attempting  to  push  the  investigator’s  car  off  the  road,  the 
player may object to this. The player could say, “Hold on, I’m 
putting my foot down and getting away,” but still the Keeper 
may insist the cultists are barging the investigator’s car off the 
road. There’s a disagreement, a conflict—a reason to roll dice 
and see whether the investigator’s car is indeed pushed into 
the  ditch.  The  story  has  reached  a  moment  of  tension  that 
requires a definite outcome. Time to reach for the dice!

Skill Rolls
The word "roll" is used in conjunction with the appropriate 
skill or characteristic; thus the Keeper will, for example, call 
for a "Climb roll" or a "Strength roll".

The Keeper has the final say about which skill or char-
acteristic is appropriate to roll, depending on the situation 
and the nature of the opposition. The term "skill roll" is used 
regardless of whether a skill or a characteristic is used.

The Keeper’s 
Decision is Final
While the Call of Cthulhu 
rules are designed to be as 
clear and flexible as possible, 
from time to time you may 
encounter a situation in the 
game for which the rules 
do not provide a solution. 
In such circumstances the 
Keeper’s decision is final. 
Players are encouraged to 
offer suggestions and ideas, 
however the players should 
respect the Keeper’s decision 
and move on with the game.

The  player  should  be  clear  about  what  they  want  to 
achieve by stating a goal before rolling any dice. If the goal 
isn’t  acceptable,  the  Keeper  should  help  the  player  to  re-
phrase it. The goal should define the player’s objective clear