
Fighting  attacks:  In  combat,  a  shoggoth  covers  an  area  5  yards 
square and is able to produce tentacles, claws, or any manner 
of appendages at will with which to perform a crushing attack. 
Those unfortunate enough to be hit by a shoggoth attack may 
also be engulfed.

Engulf: Each person engulfed within the shoggoth is attacked sepa-
rately and each must make a successful opposed STR roll or be 
sucked apart. If the shoggoth attacks more than one target, it 
must divide its STR among all targets. 

Those  held  within  the  shoggoth’s  black  bulk  can  strike  back  only 
on rounds in which they successfully roll STR or less on 1D100. 
Each round a victim is held within a shoggoth, he or she loses 
hit  points  equal  to  the  shoggoth’s  damage  bonus;  the  damage 
describable as rupturing, crushing, and being sucked into pieces. 
A  shoggoth  can  engulf  any  number  of  enemies;  however  they 
may not exceed a total SIZ greater than its own SIZ.

Fighting  70%  (35/14),  damage  equals  damage  bonus  or  it  can 

choose to engulf the target (see above)

Dodge: 8% (4/1)
Armor: None, but (1) fire and electrical attacks do only half dam-
age; (2) physical weapons such as firearms and knives do only 1 
point of damage per hit; (3) a shoggoth regenerates 2 hit points 
per round.

Sanity Loss: 1D6/1D20 Sanity points to see a shoggoth.

As the science of genetics grows from infancy to matu-
rity, the day may come when experiments reveal a hith-
erto unknown code in the cells of all living things on 
Earth. The code, when activated, causes cells to modify, 
allowing a hybridized and rapid evolution never before 
seen  in  nature—with  flesh  instantaneously  adapting 
to  changing  environments.  Will  mankind  welcome  or 
revolt in horror at the shoggoth within us all?

Shoggoth  Lords  are  smaller,  more  intelligent  descendants 
of their larger monstrous cousins. Through some quirk of 
evolution, or perhaps through the unwitting intervention of 
some  other  species  or  being,  a  handful  of  shoggoths  have 
evolved into intelligent creatures able at will to mimic hu-
mans in appearance and speech.

These  beings,  without  exception,  appear  in  human 
form  as  grossly  obese,  hairless  figures.  They  are  cunning 
and  charming,  and  somewhat  awkward  in  their  interac-
tions  with  humans.  Although  a  shoggoth  lord  may  freely 
transmute  between  its  human  and  monstrous  forms,  it 
takes great concentration and control to remain in human 
form for any length of time. If somehow caught off-guard, 
angered, or distracted, a shoggoth lord quickly melts down 
into  its  terrible  true  gelatinous  self.  These  creatures  guard 
their secrets and identities well, living and feeding alone in 
private  and  quickly  dispatching  nosey  investigators  who 
would unmask them and expose their true horror.

Shoggoth lords find it amusing (and nourishing) to pen-
etrate the human world; only in human beings do they find 
that delightful horror of comprehension that makes a thing 
really worth eating. Shoggoth lords care only about satisfying 
themselves. Though more sophisticated than most predators, 
they are given to the same grandiose claims of territory and to 
murderous squabbles among themselves. They are not social, 
they do not die natural deaths, nor do they breed