 
Some form of motivation must be chosen as a reason for the 
investigators to connect with the plot. 
Common motivations include:
G  Employment:  The  investigators  are  professionals 

available for hire.

G  A  social  connection:  A  friend  or  member  of  an 
investigator’s family, who is integral to the plot.
G  Personal gain: A chance to find fame or fortune.
G  Altruism:  Saving  others,  perhaps  even  saving  the 

world itself.

G  Moral  code:  Battling  evil  as  a  result  of  personal 

convictions.

The  investigator’s  background  is  there  to  help  in  this 
respect.  The  initial  backstory  written  by  the  players  serves 
to  build  their  characters  and  define  their  connections  to 
the world. The entries that you add or amend during play 
should  provide  connections  between  that  character  and 
the Mythos, especially those that are the result of madness. 
Try to word backstory entries in a way that might push the 
character to pursue the Mythos, such as:

G  An insatiable appetite for knowledge that man was 

not meant to know.

G  You cannot rest until the Cult of the Black Pharaoh 

is destroyed.

G  Every  night  you  dream  of  a  sunken  city;  you  hear 

voices calling your name.

G  The answer must lie in the Necronomicon.

Non-Player Characters 
(NPCs)
The players control their investigators; the Keeper controls 
everyone else in the world, known as non-player characters. 
These can come into the game in a number of ways.

You may find that players suggest ideas for non-player 
characters  when  making  their 
investigators:  relatives, 
colleagues,  friends,  or  enemies.  Refer  to  the  investigators’ 
backstories for these and take careful note of any details for 
later incorporation into the scenario.

Investigators  may  establish  contacts  during  the  game 

(see Contacts, page 97).

Your plot will include some key non-player characters—

the villains!

The  game  will  inevitably  lead  to  encountering  new 
non-player characters. Every street, every bar, every library 
has people in it for the investigators to talk to.

The important non-player characters in published sce-
narios will have their characteristics and a selection of skills 
already  drawn  up;  however,  there  are  always  non-player 
characters the investigators will wish to speak to in addition 
to those already prepared. You may need to come up with 
skills  and  characteristics  for  these  improvised  non-player 
characters as required  during play—and this can  easily be 
done. Of course, you will only need skills or characteristics 
for your non-player characters if they are opposing an inves-
tigator in some way—often you can just play the interaction 
without concern for any skill values or numbers.  

When an investigator makes a skill roll versus a non-play-
er character, you will need to establish whether the difficulty 
level for the player is Regular, Hard, or Extreme. To do this, 
consider the skill or characteristic being used in opposition 
by  the  non-player  character.  As  Keeper,  you  should  make 
a swift and arbitrary decision whether a particular skill or 
characteristic is a key aspect of that character’s profession. 
If the skill or characteristic directly relates to the non-player 
character’s  profession,  then  it  would  be  rated  at  50%  or 
higher, and thus the difficulty level should be Hard. If this 

Walter is creeping about in an old mansion when he 
hears someone coming and wants to hide. As the door 
opens, the Keeper asks for a Stealth roll. The Keeper 
figures  that  the  opposing  factor  would  be  the  Spot 
Hidden skill of the approaching non-player character. 
In this case the non-player character is a maid. The 
Keeper doesn’t have any statistics for the