 Regular difficulty: repairing or creating a standard 

electrical device.

i  Hard  difficulty:  repairing  something  that  is  badly 
damaged; working without the proper tools. 

Pushing  examples:  taking  longer  to  repair  or  reconfigure 
the equipment; taking a risky short cut.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: take dam-
age  from  an  electric  shock;  blow  the  fuses  and  plunge  the 
building into darkness; wreck the thing you are working on 
beyond repair.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
attempts to harness the electrical power of living organisms 
into the device.

Electronics (01%) [Modern]
For  troubleshooting  and  repairing  electronic  equipment. 
Allows simple electronic devices to be made. This is a skill 
for  the  present  day—use  Physics  and  Electrical  Repair  for 
electronic developments of the 1920s. 

Unlike the Electrical Repair skill, parts needed for elec-
tronics work often cannot be jury-rigged: they are designed 
for precise jobs. Often without the right microchip or circuit 
board, the skill-user is out of luck unless they can contrive 
some form of workaround.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
Time is a factor in fabrication or repair, and the difficulty 
level should be lowered if time is unlimited, especially if the 
character has access to manuals and parts.

If an investigator has the correct parts and instructions, 
putting together a standard computer should not even re-
quire a skill roll. 

i  Regular  difficulty:  repairing  minor  damage  to  a 
computer or electronic device — the kind of service 
one might expect under warranty.

i  Hard  difficulty:  use  scavenged  parts  to  jury-rig  a 

tracking device to plant in someone’s car.

Pushing  examples:  taking  longer  to  construct  or  repair  a 
device; researching new or other methodologies.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: fry circuitry 
or  other  delicate  parts;  take  damage  from  electric  shock; 
create  a  device  that  does  something  other  than  what  was 
intended.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  pushed  roll,  he  or  she 
becomes  paranoid,  convinced  that  every  item  they  come 
across  contains  electronic  bugging  devices:  the  telephone, 
the television, the refrigerator. 

63 

chapter 4: skillsFast Talk (05%)
Fast Talk is specifically limited to verbal trickery, deception, 
and misdirection, such as bamboozling a bouncer to let you 
inside a club, getting someone to sign a form they haven’t 
read,  making  a  policeman  look  the  other  way,  and  so  on. 
The skill is opposed by Psychology or Fast Talk. After a brief 
period  (usually  after  the  fast  talker  has  left  the  scene)  the 
target will realize that they have been conned. The effect of 
Fast Talk is always temporary, though it will last longer if a 
higher level of success is achieved.

Fast Talk may be used to haggle the price of an item or 
service down. If successful, the seller momentarily thinks that 
they  have  struck  a  good  deal;  however,  if  the  buyer  returns 
and attempts to purchase another item, the seller may refuse 
further haggling and even increase the price in order to re-
coup what they lost on the previous sale!

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 
See  Charm,  Fast  Talk,  Intimidate,  and  Persuade  Skills: 
Difficulty Levels, page 93. 

Pushing  examples:  getting  up  close  and  personal  to  the 
target;  talking  outlandishly,  aiming  to  confuse  the  target