 books, 
and  see  if  I  can  figure  out  how  to  turn  the  various 
sides until it opens.”

“Sounds good. OK, give me an INT roll”.
Notice  how  the  Keeper’s  question  coaxed  some 

extra description and story from the player.

Ask the Player
Ask questions of the players. Encourage the players to talk in 
terms of their investigators’ actions rather than using rules 
terminology.  When  a  player  proposes  an  action  by  asking 
to make a roll, ask questions about what the investigator is 
actually doing. It’s the Keeper’s job to ask the player to make 
a roll. Asking to make a roll does not convey the drama of 
the situation.

195 

chapter 10: playing the gameEncourage the players to describe the way in which their 
goals  are  achieved  when  they  win  the  roll.  Think  of  it  as 
shining a spotlight on the player and placing a microphone 
under  his  or  her  nose.  Don’t  be  unnecessarily  restrictive 
when it comes to what you allow a player to narrate. With 
a  goal  of “breaking  the  door  down,”  does  it  really  matter 
whether  the  player  describes  it  as, “I  force  the  door  with 
my shoulder until the latch pops off,” or “I charge the door, 
smashing it asunder, sending splinters of wood flying across 
the  room?”  If  it’s  a  matter  of  inconsequential  details  and 
the  player  has  enjoyed  describing  his  or  her  investigator’s 
actions, just smile and say, “Yes!” Try to avoid restating or 
rephrasing what the player just said—doing so is unneces-
sarily and may undermine the player’s contribution.

Some players may roll the dice and look at you to tell them 
what happens: “I rolled 14 to break down the door. That’s a 
success.  What  happens?”  Throw  the  question  back  and  en-
courage the player to elaborate. “Cool, tell us how you do it”.

Some players may go to the other extreme and describe 
everything  that  happens,  including  non-player  characters’ 
reactions  and  more.  How  far  you  allow  the  player  to  go 
when it comes to describing how their goal is achieved is up 
to you. You have veto if the player goes too far, and you will 
develop a feel for what “too far” means. 

Learn  to  differentiate  between  descriptive  color  and 
mechanical effect. How the player describes breaking down 
the door isn’t really important—it’s just color. The dice were 
rolled, the goal was achieved, and the door is broken down. 
From another point of view, this descriptive color is of ut-

Harvey  wins  a  skill  roll  to  break  a  door  down.  The 
player describes  Harvey’s actions thus: “I charge the 
door  and  smash  it,  sending  splinters  of  wood  flying 
across  the  room.  There’s  a  guard  there,  right?”  The 
Keeper  nods.  The  player  then  says,  “OK,  the  guard 
cowers and drops his weapon in surprise. I run over 
and  grab  the  gun  while  he’s  pulling  splinters  out  of 
his face!”

You  may  feel  that  the  player  has  gotten  a  little 
carried  away  here,  but  it’s  creating  good  story.  The 
Keeper decides to rewind the action a little to where 
the investigator is running at the guard, stating, “The 
guard sees you coming and makes a grab for his fallen 
weapon as he rolls away from you. Sounds like you’re 
trying to get it before him, right?”

Bang—it’s an exciting action