 Chase Round.

Sanity:  Every  investigator  begins  the 
game  as  sane,  but  through  the  loss  of 
Sanity points may become temporarily, 
indefinitely or permanently insane. See 
Insanity.

Sanity (SAN) Loss: The amount (usu-
ally a dice roll) of sanity lost to a char-
acter  due  to  unnerving  and  terrifying 
experiences (such as seeing a monster) 
(see page 154).

Sanity Points (SAN): A rating of san-
ity  that  begins  as  equal  to  the  charac-
ter’s  POW.  This  number  can  fluctuate. 
Maximum Sanity points equal 99 minus 
whatever  percentiles  of  the  Cthulhu 
Mythos skill the investigator has. Sanity 
points can decline or increase; however 
they do not routinely regenerate.

Sanity  Roll:  A  1D100  roll.  A  success 
is  equal  to  or  less  than  current  Sanity 

Scenario:  An  organized  and  plotted 
narrative  devised  for  roleplaying,  one 
that  includes  the  sequence  of  events, 
character  statistics,  special  rules  and 
spells, and other descriptions which in-
vestigators may find useful, interesting, 
or evocative. May be originally devised 
and designed by the Keeper or part of a 
published scenario or source book.

SIZ: Size, a Characteristic. See Charac-
teristic.

Skill:  A  defined  body  of  knowledge, 
technique or physical ability, especially 
pertaining to investigators and the skills 
available to them. 

Skill Roll: A 1D100 roll. See Success.

Story: See Scenario.

STR:  Strength,  a  Characteristic.  See 
Characteristic.

Surprise: A sudden, unexpected attack 
that  may  surprise  the  opponent  (see 
page 106).

Tick: Investigators who successfully use 
a skill mark the box (“tick” or “check”) 
on the investigator sheet that is next to 
the  skill.  Roll  for  skill  improvement  in 
the  investigator  development  phase  of 
the game. Skills improve in 1D10-point 
increments. Cthulhu Mythos and Credit 
Rating cannot be ticked (see page 61).

Tome, Mythos Tome: A book contain-
ing knowledge of the Cthulhu Mythos, 
usually conferring Cthulhu Mythos Skill 
points and spells.

Unconscious:  A  character  who  has 
received a major wound may fall uncon-
scious if they fail to roll equal to or under 
CON. The duration of unconsciousness 
is at the Keeper’s discretion. A success-
ful  First  Aid  or  Medicine  skill  roll  may 
return a character to consciousness (see 
page 123).

389 

chapter 16: APPENDICESAppendix II: Converting to 7th Edition Rules

Converting Material from 
Previous Editions of Call of 
Cthulhu
If  you  are  accustomed  to  previous  editions  of  these  rules, 
you’ll notice some changes have been made in 7th Edition. 
These rules are intended to allow materials from all previous 
editions of Call of Cthulhu to be made compatible with 7th 
Edition using minimal effort. Some of these changes are dis-
cussed here with the intention of providing the reader with an 
understanding of the thinking behind them.

Converting Investigators
If players have existing investigators that they wish to convert 
for use with 7th Edition, follow these instructions. Given the 
limited  life-expectancy  of  the  average  investigator,  this  is 
unlikely to be much of a concern for many players!

Characteristics
The  decision  was  taken  to  unify  characteristics  and  skills; 
both are now on a comparable percentage scale. The inten-
tion is to make it easier to compare and make opposed rolls 
using a mixture of skills and characteristics.

The aim is