 elder things to traverse the 
universe.  The  elder  things  created  at  least  one  portal  to 
the Great White Space on Earth, deep in the mountains of 
China; whether more portals exist remains to be discovered.

Elder Things
A billion years ago elder things descended 
upon Earth from the stars, their  
technology hundreds of years advanced 
beyond what humans know in the early 
twenty-first century. They were able to 
create life with their understanding of 
science—according to some, they were the 
creators of all life on Earth. However, 
as the aeons progressed, the elder things 
degenerated. They lost both their  
greatest technologies and their ability to 
fly through space unaided. Despite  
colonizing the entire planet, as the ages 
passed their hold diminished until they 
controlled only one city. In the end they 
barely had the technology to create  
artificial heaters, and so preserve their 
existence a few centuries more.

Thus, while it is known that the elder 
things once had great technology, and while 
it is believed that there are still elder 
things among the stars and that they still 
remember their ancient secrets, the elder 
things of Earth left almost no traces of 
their technological mastery.

If the Great White Space was a dimension constructed 
by  the  elder  things,  it  is  reasonable  to  presume  that  other 
pocket  dimensions  may  have  also  been  created.  Probably 
varying  in  size  and  secretly  existing  until  discovered  by 
some  hapless  traveller  or  sorcerer,  who  knows  what  such 
spaces would hold? 

Lamp of Alhazred
The lamp of Alhazred was unusual in its appearance. It was 
meant for burning oil, and seemed to be of gold. It had the 
shape of a small oblong pot, with a handle curved up from 
one side, and a spout for wick and flame on the other. Many 
curious drawings decorated it, together with letters and 
pictures arranged into words in a language unfamiliar.
—August Derleth and H.P. Lovecraft, The Lamp of Alhazred

Used by: Anyone
An  enchanted  oil-burning  lamp.  When  lit,  the  lamp  gives 
forth vapors that send the minds of those who inhale them 
into ecstasies of vision. These revelations are of the strange 
and weird landscapes of Mythos places and dimensions, and 
the ways of the entities there. If this lamp were actually used 
by Al-Hazred, the author of the Al Azif, some of the breadth 
of his knowledge would be explained.

It is believed that the lamp is unique, however its where-

abouts today is unknown.

271 

chapter 13: artifacts and alien devicesYithians
Of all the known alien races, the 
Yithians are the most technologically 
advanced. However, perhaps due to the 
Yithians’ philosophical view of life, they 
are oddly reluctant to use their  
technology. They tend to be reactive, 
quickly and adeptly formulating new 
technology as it is required, but in 
general their curiosity does not drive 
them toward invention.
Of particular note is the Yithians’ 
conquest of time—the reason for their 
being called the Great Race. They are 
the only technical race able to move 
up and down the time stream at will. 
Somehow they even avoid the dreaded 
hounds of Tindalos, who pursue many 
others who traverse time and attract 
their attention.
Although the Yithians’ temporal 
abilities are largely mental, they have 
also invented devices that affect the 
fourth dimension.

Lightning Gun 

Used by: Yithians
A rare Yithian weapon, this device was created by the race 
shortly  after  their  arrival  on  prehistoric  Earth.  Built  to 
combat the carnivorous flying polyps, it is a camera-shaped 
weapon that fires great gouts of electricity. 

Numerous varieties exist. A common one contains a pack 
of  32  charges  and 