 
into  Atlach-Nacha’s  web  becomes 
trapped.  The  web  has  STR  150  against  which  any  victim 
must roll to escape. In an hour or a day, Atlach-Nacha ap-
pears to dispose of the captive.

The  spider  god  can  first  fling  more  strands  over  the 
victim and then bite, or it can bite at once. When it bites, it 
injects a paralyzing poison, leaving the victim incapable of 
action or defense.

Atlach-Nacha then sucks the victim’s body juices at the 
rate  of  3D10  STR  per  combat  round.  If  uncared-for,  the 
husk soon dies. If rescued, the victim’s STR returns at a rate 
of  2D10  points  per  game  month  of  bed-rest.  During  this 
time the victim’s hit points can never exceed one-fifth of his 
or her STR.

SIZ 125 

CON 375 

ATLACH-NACHA, The Spider God
STR 150 
POW 150  HP 50
Damage Bonus: +2D6
Build: 3
Magic Points: 30
Move: 15

DEX 125 

INT 75

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Atlach-Nacha may kick out with its many legs or 

bash with its bulky abdomen.

Bite: A bite penetrates any mundane armor and injects paralyzing 
poison. The target must make an Extreme CON roll to resist 
for 1D10 rounds, after which the roll must be made again. If 
the second roll is also successful the poison has been resisted. If 
either roll is failed the target is paralyzed.

Cast web: The target is entangled in a strong, sticky web. Breaking 
out requires an opposed STR roll versus the web’s STR 150.

Fighting 60% (30/12), damage bonus or bite (see above) 
Cast web 80% (40/16), see above 
Armor: 12 points of chitin and fur.  If hit points reach zero, it flees 

across its complex web to a secret lair where it heals.

Spells: All Contact spells. 
Sanity Loss: 1/1D10 Sanity points to see Atlach-Nacha.

Atlach-Nacha

If a party is unfortunate enough to come upon Abhoth 
itself,  bubbling  uncleanly  in  its  pool  of  filth,  Abhoth  will 
put forth a probing hand or member, which will feel over 
the intruders and then drop off and crawl away. The visitor 
will then either be seized and devoured by other appendages 
of  Abhoth’s  or  ignored,  at  the  Keeper’s  option.  Abhoth  is 
known to speak telepathically with intruders, but few have 
returned from the meeting.

SIZ 400 

CON 500 

ABHOTH, Source of Uncleanness
STR 200 
POW 250  HP 90
Damage Bonus: +6D6, but only 1D6 per pseudopod
Build: 7
Magic Points: 50
Move: 0

DEX 5 

INT 65

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Abhoth will wrestle and seize using his append-
ages. If successful, he seizes and absorbs his victim—whether 
the victim is digested slowly or assimilated telepathically is not 
known.

Fighting 60% (30/12), victim absorbed
Armor: Abhoth regenerates from all kinetic damage at the rate of 
20 points per combat round. Fire or magic will cause normal 
damage. If Abhoth is reduced to 0 hit points, it withdraws and 
sinks far away down into the earth where it is inaccessible to 
further damage. It oozes toward the surface after healing from 
its injuries.

Spells:  None,  but  it  may 