 his final movement 
action this round and his first two next round are lost as a 
result of Johansen’s fighting maneuver.

Johansen’s turn: Johansen has only 1 movement action and 
applies  full-steam  ahead,  accelerating  forward  through  5 
locations with his one movement action. The Keeper does 
not place any hazards in his way and Johansen is now 6 lo-
cations ahead. As he flees, Johansen looks over his shoulder 
to see Cthulhu nebulously recombining far behind the ship! 
Cthulhu cannot catch him next round and the Keeper rules 
that Johansen has escaped.

Johansen used his steamboat to ram Cthulhu and escape from the Great Old One.

151 

chapter 7: chasesnvestigators begin the game sane and rational. 
During  their  investigations  they  will  encoun-
ter  otherworldly  horrors,  alien  creatures,  and 
the  terrible  cosmic  truths  of  the  Cthulhu 
Mythos—all of which will challenge their state 
of mind and sense of normality, and push them 
to very edge of sanity. In some cases, the experience will be 
too  much  and  the  unfortunate  investigator  will  descend 
into  periods  of  temporary,  indefinite,  or  even  permanent 
madness.

Each investigator has Sanity points that can rise and fall 
during play. Sanity is used to determine whether the inves-
tigator  can  withstand  the  horrors  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos, 
as  well  as  stand  up  to  fear-inducing  situations  without 
turning  tail  and  running  away.  Loss  of  Sanity  points  can 
lead to insanity. When Sanity points are reduced to zero, an 
investigator is permanently and incurably insane, and ceases 
to be a player character.

Sanity in the game is modeled after the behavior of pro-
tagonists  in  H.P.  Lovecraft’s  fiction  who,  more  often  than 
not, faint or go mad when confronted with mind-bending 
physics and monstrous entities from beyond space and time. 
Sanity  is  the  game’s  register  of  the  investigator’s  flexibility 
and  resilience  to  emotional  trauma.  Characters  that  start 
with  a  high  number  of  Sanity  points  find  it  easier  to  ra-
tionalize traumatic events or to repress horrific memories. 
Those  with  a  lower  number  of  Sanity  points  are  mentally 
fragile and more susceptible to emotional upset. While the 
cosmic  horror  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  is  the  fundamental 
assault on the mind of an investigator, other gruesome and 
comparatively  ordinary  sights  and  events  can  also  cause 
emotional disturbance.

In an unnerving or horrifying situation the Keeper will 
test the resiliency and emotional strength of the investiga-
tors.  This  is  done  by  calling  for  a  Sanity  roll  for  each  in-
vestigator entangled in the situation. Investigator insanity is 
triggered when too many Sanity points are lost in too short 
a time, causing temporary or indefinite insanity. 

Sanity Points and SAN 
Rolls
Sanity points should be tracked carefully, as the number can 
change up and down throughout the game. When investi-
gators encounter a sanity-threatening situation, the Keeper 
may  call  for  a  Sanity  roll.  Each  player  whose  investigator 
experiences this source of horror rolls 1D100. A success is 
a roll equal to or less than the investigator’s current Sanity 
points. Bonus dice and penalty dice are not applied to Sanity 
rolls (with one exception, Self-Help, page 167). 

Note: If using the optional rule for spending Luck points, 

these may not be spent on Sanity rolls.

A successful roll means that the investigator loses