 to 
reveal  his  supernatural  powers 
unless  pressed.  Nyarlathotep 
usually  reacts  to  challenges  by 
summoning beings to carry off or 

otherwise dispose of foes.

Nyarlathotep  can 

summon  a 
member  of  any  race  in  this  book  (plus 
more  that  are  not),  at  the  cost  of  1  magic 
point  per  5  POW  points  the  creature  possesses. 
When in monstrous form, he tends to grasp his victims and 
then carry them off with him.

NYARLATHOTEP, The Crawling Chaos

SIZ 55 
HP 15

DEX 95 

INT 430

CON 95 
APP 90 

Human Form
STR 60 
POW 5 
Damage Bonus: none.
Build: 0
Magic Points: 12
Move: 12

SIZ 450 

CON 250 

Monstrous Form
STR 400 
POW 500  APP N/A  HP 70
Damage Bonus: +10D6
Build: 11
Magic Points: 100
Move: 16

DEX 95 

INT 430

Nyarlathotep

323 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 1
When in human form, Nyarlathotep can be slain by normal physi-
cal means. If so slain, after collapsing the body begins to quake 
and swell, bursting to release a huge clawed monster (or some 
other monstrous form described previously). This unwelcome 
colossus  then  rises  from  the  split  corpse  and  disappears  into 
the sky without further molesting the killer. 

When in monstrous form, Nyarlathotep is difficult to slay, however 

slaying does dispel him.

Nyarlathotep’s  clawed  demon  form  changes  continually;  each 
round he will have at least two claws capable of attacking.
Fighting  attacks:  As  a  human,  has  the  usual  range  of  unarmed 
attacks  open  to  humanoids. As  a  monster  he  is  able  to  use  a 
multitude of appendages, depending on his form. 

Fighting (as a human) 100% (50/20), 1D3 or damage as per weapon 
Fighting (as a monster) 85% (42/17), 10D6 + damage bonus 
Armor:  None,  but  brought  to  0  hit  points,  he  collapses  on  the 
ground, changes form (always to a more monstrous one, which 
causes  his  viewers  to  lose  Sanity  points)  and  then  flies  into 
interstellar space.

Spells:  Nyarlathotep  knows  all  Mythos  spells;  he  can  summon 
monsters at the rate of 1 magic point per 5 POW points the 
monster  has;  he  may  summon  a  shantak,  hunting  horror,  or 
servitor of the Outer Gods, at the cost of a single magic point.
Sanity Loss: No loss to see his human form; in many of his other 

999 forms, 1D10/1D100 to see Nyarlathotep.

Nyogtha
An insidious odor began to penetrate the room. It was vaguely 
reptilian, musky, and nauseating. The disk lifted inexorably, 
and a little finger of blackness crept out from beneath its edge 
came a great wave of iridescent blackness, neither liquid nor 
solid, a frightful gelatinous mass.

—Henry Kuttner, The Salem Horror

Nyogtha is a minor deity reported to inhabit underground 
caverns  on  Earth.  It  may  be  related  to  Cthulhu.  Nyogtha 
resembles a blob of living darkness that may throw out black 
tentacles or pseud