 police. What if the victim 
is known to the investigator and able to talk for a brief 
time before dying? What if the victim is someone the 
investigator would be glad to see the back of? Perhaps 
someone  to  whom  the  investigator  is  in  debt?  Take  a 
look at the investigators’ backstories for inspiration.

Anatomy of a Linear Scenario
While  scenarios  can  come  in  all  shapes  and  forms,  the 
majority share some common elements, much like a classic 
piece of detective fiction. A beginning, middle, and an end is 
a good place to start. Without these three a scenario will lack 
definition and has the potential to become a confusing mess, 
not only for the players, but also for the Keeper. 

The  beginning  sets  up  the  whole  game:  it  hooks  the 
players’  interest,  sets  the  tone  and  mood,  and  provides 
an  initial  source  of  clues  and  leads  for  investigation.  The 
middle is where the investigators get to pursue information, 
meet  non-player  characters,  discover  clues,  and  begin  to 
piece together the bigger picture. The end comes when the 
investigators  have  (more  or  less)  discovered  what’s  going 

216 

Call of CthulhuConstructing  a  plot  is  essential  to  good  linear  scenario 
design,  and  this  is  easy  to  do.  Just  think  about  the  books 
you’ve read, films and TV you’ve watched, and stories you’ve 
been told. All of these can provide great inspiration. Don’t be 
afraid to steal a cool idea or recreate a whole story as the basis 
of your scenario’s plot—every Keeper worth his or her (es-
sential) salt steals from movies and books. If you don’t know 
where to start, grab a collection of Lovecraft stories and get 
reading! Changing a few names and mixing up the monsters 
in a particular Lovecraft story is the perfect way to start.

Most  players,  as  they  become  more  familiar  with  the 
game  and  confident  in  their  investigators,  will  want  to 
diverge  from  the  linear  scenario.  Rather  than  follow  the 
obvious  clues  laid  out  for  them  by  the  Keeper,  they  will 
want to follow up a different clue or even come up with a 
line of enquiry entirely of their own devising. Suddenly the 
adventure  is  sidetracked  and  the  Keeper  may  be  tempted 
to contrive something to get the story back on its intended 
track  rather  than  go  where  the  players  are  heading.  If  the 
players  are  compelled  back  to  the  Keeper’s  prepared  plot, 
they will come to feel that their contribution is of little value 
and that they are simply following a preordained story rath-
er than creating their own. This means that it’s time to look 
at running scenarios in a non-linear way.

The Anatomy of a Non-Linear Scenario
Novice  Keepers  are  advised  to  create  linear  stories  at  first, 
moving  onto  non-linear  scenarios  as  their  experience  and 
confidence grows. 

In  a  non-linear  adventure,  after  starting  out  at  point 
A, the successive points may be encountered in a different 
order each time the scenario is played and various unknown 
endings may ultimately be reached. 

In creating a sandbox, the Keeper is establishing a “geog-
raphy”  for  the  game  wherein  numerous  interconnected  or 
separate plots can be set for the investigators to discover over 
the course of play. Should the players go off at a tangent, the 
Keeper is well-versed enough in the setting to accommodate 
the  developing  story.  Note  that  you  are  not