T  If you are persuading a police officer, it may mean 

risking arrest.

84 

Call of CthulhuT  If  you  are  searching  a  room,  it  may  mean  turning 
it  over  and  risking  breaking  things,  or  spending 
too long there when you know the bad guys might 
return at any moment.

T  If you are trying to read someone with Psychology, 
it  may  mean  studying  a  person  that  little  bit  too 
closely, or asking some very prying questions.
T  If you are picking a lock, it may mean using a little 
too much force. Something may break, but what will 
it be? The lock or your lock picks?

T  If it involves Cthulhu Mythos, you may risk staring 
into  the  abyss  of  dark  knowledge  for  so  long  that 
something looks back at you.

T  If you are climbing a wall, it may mean continuing 

even though it feels completely unsafe.

T  If  you  are  reading  a  tome,  it  may  mean  obsessing 
over  every  page,  reading  and  rereading  obsessively 
until you can correlate the contents.

It is important to note that a pushed roll is not simply a 
re-roll; time always passes between rolls—it may be seconds 
or hours. 

When  making  a  pushed  roll,  the  goal  must  still  be 
achievable.  The  skill  and  difficulty  level  normally  remain 
unchanged, but may be modified if the situation changes.

Only  skill  and  characteristic  rolls  can  be  pushed,  not 
Luck,  Sanity,  or  combat  rolls,  or  rolls  to  determine  an 
amount of damage or Sanity loss.

Foreshadowing Failure

So haunting were these formulae, and so frequently did he 
come upon them, that before the doctor knew it he was  
repeating them under his breath.

—H. P. Lovecraft, The Case Of Charles Dexter Ward

Before rolling the dice for a pushed roll, the consequence of 
failure may be foreshadowed by the Keeper. To foreshadow, 
the Keeper says, “If you fail…” followed by as much detail 
as  he  or  she  desires.  The  Keeper  should  highlight  things 
that would be apparent to the investigator (though perhaps 
unconsidered  by  the  player).  Things  that  the  investigator 
would  not  be  aware  of  might  only  be  hinted  at  (at  the 
Keeper’s discretion). Players are welcome to offer their own 
suggestions for consequences, especially when they come up 
with scarier ones!

There are two reasons why the Keeper should foreshadow 
the consequence:

i  The  player  requests  foreshadowing  to  clarify  the 
dangers  (as  the  investigator  would  be  aware  of 
them), so that they can gauge the risk.

i  The Keeper chooses to foreshadow to highlight the 
danger or to increase the drama of the situation.

It is imperative that the Keeper focuses on an interesting 

consequence, rather than flat failure. 

More advice on foreshadowing is offered in Chapter 10: 

Playing the Game. 

 Harvey is fleeing from pursuing cultists. His player 
declares that Harvey is trying to hide behind a mar-
ket  stall  positioned  in  the  main  street.  The  Keeper 
determines that this requires a Stealth roll at Regular 
difficulty. Harvey’s player rolls high and fails the roll. 
The  Keeper  describes  the  stall  as  being  little  more 
than  a  few  boxes  on  the  pavement,  with  nowhere 
to  hide  behind.  Believing  it’s  only  a  matter  of  time 
before he is caught, Harvey’s decides to try to hide in 
plain  sight,  among  the  passing  crowds,  hoping 