 the rate 
of 1D10 per day). 

Soul  Burn:  Whether  immaterial  or  fully  manifested,  the  Horror 
may stare into the soul of a single target. Staring directly into 
its rows of dark, void-like eyes, the target must succeed in an 

The Horror in Ink

Extreme  POW  roll  or  be  unable  to  look  away,  suffering  un-
imaginable terror as the Horror burns the target’s soul—Sanity 
roll (1D6/1D10 SAN loss). There is no limit to the cumulative 
Sanity  loss  that  this  can  amount  to  over  successive  attacks. 
Constant use of this attack is what killed Leiter.

Immaterial:  When  not  fully  manifested,  the  Horror  may  pass 
freely  through  solid  objects;  thus  doors,  swords  and  bullets 
present no challenge. Magical weapons may damage and affect 
the Horror at the Keeper’s discretion.

Possession: Can possess anyone who has touched the Witch Trial 
Papers. Victims  must  make  an  opposed  POW  roll  versus  the 
Horror’s POW to resist. No roll required if the target is dead 
already. May use the eyes of a possessed victim to attack others 
with Soul Burn.

Fighting 60% (30/12), damage 1D4 plus 1D10 STR and CON drain

Soul Burn Extreme POW roll or suffer 1D6/1D10 SAN loss

Dodge 40% (20/8)
Armor: 5 points of worm-like, wriggling skin. Cannot be harmed 

with physical attacks while immaterial.

Skills: Listen 40%, Spot Hidden 40%.
Sanity Loss: 1D4/1D8 sanity points to see the Horror.
Spells: Sense Life, Shrivelling, plus two of the Keeper’s choosing. 

383 

chapter 15: scenariosAppendix I: Glossary

An alphabetical index of the key termi-
nology used in games of Call of Cthulhu.

1D100:  See  Percentage,  Percentile 
Dice.

1D4, 1D6; 1D8; 1D10, etc.: Notation 
used  to  indicate  a  number  and  type  of 
dice.

Adventure: See Scenario.

APP: Appearance, a Characteristic. See 
Characteristic.

Armor: Reduces the amount of damage 
received. May be worn (such as a bullet-
proof vest) or natural (such as the scaly 
hide of a monster). Deduct the number 
of  armor  points  from  the  damage;  the 
remaining  result  is  amount  of  actual 
damage subtracted from the character’s 
Hit Points (see page 33).

Assets:  Derived  from  Credit  Rating. 
Wealth that is tied up in assets can only 
be  spent  if  time  is  taken  to  realize  the 
capital (see page 46). 

Backstory: Aspects of the investigator 
that help to define their character. 

Base Chance: The chance an untrained 
investigator  has  to  successfully  use  a 
skill.  Some  skills  cannot  be  picked  up 
quickly  by  untrained  characters  and 
thus  have  a  1%  base  chance.  Base 
chances are shown in brackets alongside 
each skill on the investigator sheet (see 
page 430).

Believer: It is possible to learn about the 
Cthulhu Mythos from secondary sourc-
es—such  as  tomes—yet  not  actually 
believe  in  the  Mythos.  However,  when 
a character encounters the Mythos first-
hand, all accumulated Cthulhu Mythos 
Skill points are immediately deducted as 
Sanity loss (see page 179).

Bonus  Die:  May  be  applied  by  the 
Keeper to a roll. Roll an additional "tens" 

percentile die alongside the usual pair of 
percentile