 or  parts  may  be  required.  This  skill  can  be 
used to open common household locks, but nothing more 
advanced—see the Locksmith skill for more complex locks. 
Mechanical Repair is a companion skill to Electrical Repair, 
and both may be necessary to fix complex devices, such as a 
car or an aircraft.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular difficulty: repair or create a simple device; 

open a basic lock.

i  Hard difficulty: repair a very badly damaged device; 
create a complex device with limited resources.

Pushing examples: completely dismantling the device; tak-
ing longer; risk using excessive force to "knock" the device 
into action (e.g. hitting the thing until it works).

Sample  Consequences  of  failing  a  Pushed  roll:  you  have 
broken  the  device  beyond  repair;  you  hurt  yourself  while 
working  on  the  device  (perhaps  cutting  your  hand,  etc.); 
you  become  obsessed  with  the  device  and  find  you  have 
spent the whole day and night working on it.

If an insane investigator fails a pushed roll, he or she fills 
a telephone directory-sized notepad with scribbled designs, 
culminating in the creation of a bizarre device using organic 
matter and household appliances.

Medicine (01%)
The  user  diagnoses  and  treats  accidents,  injuries,  diseases, 
poisonings,  etc.,  and  makes  public  health  recommenda-
tions.  If  an  era  has  no  good  treatment  for  a  malady,  the 
effort  is  limited,  uncertain,  or  inconclusive.  The  Medicine 
skill  grants  knowledge  of  a  wide  variety  of  drugs  and  po-
tions, natural and man-made, and understanding of the side 
effects and contraindications.

Treatment  using  the  Medicine  skill  takes  a  minimum 
of one hour and can be delivered any time after damage is 
taken, but if this is not performed on the same day, the diffi-
culty level is increased (requiring a Hard success). A person 
treated successfully with Medicine recovers 1D3 hit points 
(in  addition  to  any  First  Aid  they  have  received),  except 
in the case of a dying character, who must initially receive 
successful First Aid to stabilized them before a Medicine roll 
is made.

A character is limited to one treatment of First Aid and 
Medicine until further damage is taken (except in the case 
of a dying character who may require stabilizing with First 
Aid multiple times). Successful use of Medicine can rouse 
an unconscious person to consciousness.

In treating Major Wounds, successful use of the Medi-
cine skill provides the patient a Bonus die on their weekly 
recovery roll.

The  Keeper  may  grant  automatic  success  for  medical 

treatment in a contemporary, well-equipped hospital.

Opposing skill/Difficulty level: 

i  Regular  difficulty:  diagnosis  and  treatment  of 
standard  medical  ailments,  with  access  to  equipment  (at 
least a doctor’s bag containing drugs and instruments) and 
a suitable environment.

i  Hard difficulty: diagnosis and treatment in a dirty 
and unsafe environment, with the minimum of equipment.

Pushing examples: consulting with colleagues; conducting 
further  research;  trying  something  experimental  or  more 
risky; performing some form of clinical experiment.

Sample Consequences of failing a Pushed roll: you misdi-
agnose the ailment and you worsen the patient’s condition 
(perhaps even killing them); your good standing comes into 
question  and  you  are  investigated  for  malpractice.  In  the 
case of a dying character, if a Pushed Medicine roll is failed, 
the patient dies.

If  an  insane  investigator  fails  a  Pushed  roll,  the  results 
will be disturbing in the extreme, perhaps involving ampu