 into the water.

Cost: 3 magic points

Contact  Elder  Thing:  Unless  there  are  no  elder  things 
nearby, the chanting succeeds automatically. The most likely 
locations  are  along  the  southern  part  of  the  Mid-Atlantic 
Ridge or over the geological trenches nearest Antarctica.

Cost: 3 magic points

Contact Flying Polyp: Unless there are no flying polyps nearby, 
it succeeds automatically. Flying polyps occur only in their rare 
underground cities, the largest of which is beneath the City in 
the Sands, in the western Australian desert. The caster should 
first construct or open a communication shaft for their egress.

Cost: 9 magic points

Contact  Formless  Spawn:  Unless  there  are  no  formless 
spawn  nearby,  it  succeeds  automatically.  The  best  place  to 
cast this spell is at a temple of Tsathoggua, whose altar statue 
of Tsathoggua is still present or at a spot near an opening 
into  the  black  abyss  of  N’Kai,  somewhere  near  Binger, 
Oklahoma. Possibly other places in Western or Midwestern 
North America offer entry and exit points. One such cavern 
reputedly exists near Dunwich, Massachusetts.

Cost: 3 magic points

Contact  Ghoul:  Unless  there  are  no  ghouls  nearby,  it 
succeeds  automatically.  Ghouls  are  found  wherever  large 
concentrations  of  humans  are,  especially  near  graveyards 
and  crypts.  Places  of  burial  more  than  a  century  old  are 
propitious locations for this spell. Moonlit nights are best.

Cost: 5 magic points

Contact Gnoph-Keh: Unless there are no gnoph-keh near-
by, it succeeds automatically. Gnoph-keh are usually found 
in Greenland or other frozen wastes near the North Pole. 

The spell must be augmented with a successful Sing (Art 
& Craft specialism) roll and before doing so the caster must 
build a small effigy of the beast from ice and snow.
Cost: 6 magic points

Contact Hound of Tindalos: If a hound of Tindalos is sum-
moned it will come automatically. There is no known way to 
bargain with a hound of Tindalos, whose motive for moving 
through the stream of time and space is pure hunger.

Cost: 7 magic points

Contact Mi-Go:  Unless  there  are  no  mi-go  nearby,  it  suc-
ceeds  automatically.  The  spell  must  be  cast  at  the  base  or 
the top of a high mountain—in a range known to be mined 
or  visited  by  the  enigmatic  spacefaring  race.  Among  such 
ranges are the Appalachians, Andes and the Himalayas, and 
some peaks in Central Africa.

Cost: 8 magic points

Contact Rat-Thing: To bring forth a foul rat-thing, it must 
be  cast  at  or  near  a  site  infested  by  rat-things.  A  popula-
tion  of  these  evil  creatures  reportedly  exists  in  Yorkshire, 
England.  Another  report  of  similar  creatures  comes  from 
Massachusetts.

Cost: 2 magic points

Contact  Sand-Dweller:  Unless  there  are  no  sand-dwellers 
nearby, it succeeds automatically. The spell must be cast in 
a  suitable  desert,  such  as  in  the  Sahara,  the  southwestern 
United States, Saudi Arabia, or central Australia.

Cost: 3 magic points

Contact Servitor of the Outer Gods: A successful Luck roll 
establishes  that  a  servitor  is  within  the  Milky  Way  galaxy 
when the spell is cast. If no servitor is within that range, the 
magic points are lost. 

Stars must be visible to