’s Dodge skill.

The Keeper rolls 04 for Old Man Birch’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—an Extreme success.
Harvey requires an Extreme level of success to avoid the blow. Harvey’s player rolls 25 for Harvey’s Dodge skill—a 

Regular success. Not good enough.

Old Man Birch deals 1D3 damage for an unarmed attack, to which is added his 1D4 damage bonus. As it was an 
Extreme success, the maximum result is used in place of rolling dice; Harvey takes the full 7 points of damage (3 + 4 = 7).
The Keeper tells how Old Man Birch catches Harvey with a left hook before he has a chance to flee. This is followed 
up with a couple of solid jabs as Harvey reels back, blood running down his face. A smile spreads over Old Man Birch’s 
face as he gets a taste of victory.
Harvey’s action:

Harvey  is  cornered  and  lashes  out  at  his  foe.  Old  Man  Birch  attempts  to  side-step  and  clout  Harvey  again.  His 

intentions include damage, so this means he is fighting back.

Harvey’s player rolls 25 for Harvey’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a Regular success. 
The Keeper rolls 23 for Old Man Birch’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—a Regular success.
When the target is fighting back, the attacker wins in the case of a tie. Harvey rolls 1D3 for 2 points of damage.
That’s the end of round one.

105 

chapter 6: combat 
 
 
 
To determine the relative capability of the two opponents 
and whether the character performing the maneuver takes 
penalty dice, simply compare the Build of the two combat-
ants. If the character performing the maneuver has a smaller 
Build than their opponent then he or she takes a penalty die 
for each point of difference (to a maximum of two penalty 
dice). If an opponent exceeds the attacker’s build by three 
or more, any fighting maneuvers are ineffective; the attacker 
may be able to lay hands on their opponent, but lacks the 
strength and size required to take advantage of their grip.

T  If  the  character  performing  the  maneuver  has  a 
Build that is three or more points lower than their 
opponent’s, the maneuver is impossible.

T  If  the  character  performing  the  maneuver  has  a 
Build that is two points lower than their opponent’s, 
the maneuver roll is made with two penalty dice.
T  If  the  character  performing  the  maneuver  has  a 
Build that is one point lower than their opponent’s, 
the maneuver roll is made with one penalty die.
T  If  the  character  performing  the  maneuver  has  the 
same (or higher) Build as their opponent, no addi-
tional modifiers are applied.

Step 2: Make the Attack Roll
A  maneuver  is  treated  the  same  way  as  a  regular  Fighting 
attack. Most maneuvers will use the Brawling skill, though 
some  may  be  performed  using  another  specialization:  for 
example, the Fighting (Sword) skill might be used to disarm 
a person. The Keeper must rule according to the situation. 
The opponent should choose to either dodge or fight back as 
they would when attacked normally. 

Fighting Maneuvers   
Require a Definite Goal
Sometimes a player may state an action as 
a goal; in response to having a gun pointed 
in their face they might simply say, “I’m 
pushing  his  arm  away  so  the  gun  isn’t 
pointing at my face”. Pushing an arm away 
isn’t  a  goal—it’s  an  action.  It  doesn’t 
define  a  strong  objective;  the  opponent 
could  simply  say  they  are  pulling  back 
and firing the gun when it comes to their 
turn. A goal should be something definite 
such as, “I’m knocking the gun from his 
hand”, “I’m seizing the pistol from him”, 
or “I’m grabbing the gun arm and keeping it 
point