 artifacts follows.

Most  humans  would  be  unable  to  tell  the  difference 
between  a  piece  of  advanced  scientific  equipment  and  a 
magical  Mythos  artifact,  as  both  are  essentially  beyond 
mankind’s level of comprehension and ability to reproduce. 
Indeed, what mankind may consider to be high magic could 
well be technological in nature, and vice versa.

Mi-Go

Not only are the mi-go technologically  
advanced (several hundred years beyond that 
of Earth), but they also are eager to use it; 
technology is very much part of their daily 
life. The mi-go originally came to Earth to 
steal certain minerals they could not find on 
their own worlds. Thus, most technology that 
the mi-go have brought to Earth relates to 
mining or to war. 

The mi-go also touch upon the edges of 

the dark technology of the Mythos Gods, 
perhaps more so than any other Mythos race. 
They created Ghadamon, a larval Great Old 
One, from a Seed of Azathoth; they formed 
the Shining Trapezohedron, which has a  
peculiar power over an aspect of Nyarlathotep; 
and they constructed a network of magical 
gates which tie together many of their  
outposts.

The longevity of their stay on Earth to 

perform experiments on and study Earth’s life 
forms would suggest the possibility of more 
arcane technology existing in hidden mi-go 
outposts. Mi-go advanced knowledge of  
medical and surgical techniques must be 
noted. They are able to remove a human brain 
from its body and preserve it for thousands 
of years, totally functional. In addition they 
can create authentic-looking biological  
automatons and engage in many surgical  
techniques that humans would consider 
miraculous.

Wherever such technology resides, the  

mi-go guard it jealously and will pursue  
anyone foolish enough to steal it away.

Bio-Web Armor

Bio-Web Armor 

Used by: Mi-go
In  dangerous  situations,  mi-go  typically  don  these  webs 
of  semi-luminous  green  slime.  The  harnesses  provides  8 
points of armor against blows, flame, electricity, etc.

Humans  may  wear  these  bio-webs,  but  take  1  point 
of damage as hair and flesh is ripped away each time the 
armor is removed. A bio-web will slowly degrade because 
humans do not exude the proper nutrient solutions to care 
for it. 

Each time it is worn by a human, a bio-web decreases 
in protection by one point. When no armor points remain, 
the  armor  disintegrates  into  a  steaming,  sticky  pool  of 
viscous matter. Whether there are significant side effects to 
wearing this armor is unknown.

Black Lotus Powder

Used by: Serpent people
A  mind-bending  psychedelic,  also  known  as  “black  sty-
gian,” used by serpent people as a means of torture to ex-
tract information. In minute quantities the lotus powder 
is  a  mild  hallucinogen,  equivalent  to  magic  mushrooms; 
however in larger doses the drug may reduce those taking 
it to insane, driveling idiots.

268 

Call of CthulhuThe  drug  can  be  administered  either  by  injection  (the 
powder when heated turns to liquid) or by inhalation (the 
black smoke given-off smells like burnt toffee). If more than 
the  usual  (recreational)  dose  is  administered,  the  victim 
immediately begins to hallucinate for 1D6 minutes per dose. 
The visions are totally immersive and horrifying, granting 
insights  into  the  unspeakable  knowledge  of  the  Mythos—
some serpent men claim that it is like looking into the very 
face of Azathoth. 1D4 Sanity points are lost per minute the 
drug is active. During this period, the victim is highly sus-
ceptible  to  questioning