 becomes impossible. The only known cure is 
to find and kill the caster, which reverses the spell’s effects.

The only known written transcriptions of this hideous 
spell  are  within  the  Book  of  Eibon  and  the  Revelations  of 
Gla'aki.

Alternative names: The Creeping Mold, Ye Rotting Aw-

fulness. 

Implant Fear
Cost: 12 magic points; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: Instantaneous

This  spell  causes  soul-chilling  dread,  breaking  the  target’s 
concentration and disrupting his or her actions. The caster 
must  be  able  to  see  and  point  a  finger  at  the  target  while 
invoking a curse.

The  sudden  unnerving  costs  the  target  0/1D6  Sanity 
points and they feel compelled to retreat to a safe place—
anywhere the person would normally feel safe and secure.

Alternative  names:  Finger  of  Doom,  Eibon’s  Jinx,  The 

Evil Eye.

Flesh Ward
Cost: variable magic points; 1D4 Sanity points
Casting time: 5 rounds

Grants protection against physical attack. Each magic point 
spent gives the caster (or the chosen target) 1D6 points of 
armor  against  non-magical  attacks.  This  protection  wears 
off as it blocks damage. For example, if a character had 12 
points of Flesh Ward as armor and was hit for 8 points of 
damage, the Flesh Ward would be reduced to 4 points, yet 
he or she would take no damage. The spell lasts 24 hours or 
until the protection is used up. 

Once cast, the spell may not be reinforced with further 
magic points, nor recast until the old spell’s protection has 
been used up.

Alternative  names:  Protect  Thee  from  Mighty  Blows, 

Armour of the Will, Blood Shield.

Melt Flesh
Cost (dead flesh): 1 magic point per 15 SIZ of dead flesh; 
1D4 Sanity points
Cost (living flesh): 5 magic points per 15 SIZ of living flesh; 
1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: 5 rounds

This devilish spell heats flesh (dead or living) to its melting 
point in one round. If used on animate flesh, the cost is sub-
stantially higher to the caster in magic points. The victim’s 
flesh is melted causing horrific disfigurement (1D4 damage 
per 15 SIZ points affected). In certain cases, such as where 
the face is targeted, the victim may become blind or lose the 
ability to hear, and possibly suffocate unless air vents can be 
quickly created. Seeing human flesh melt off human bones 
costs 1/1D6 Sanity points.

Alternative names: Rite of the Dissolution, Liquefy Skin.

259 

chapter 12: grimoireMental Suggestion
Cost: variable magic points and Sanity points
Casting time: 3 rounds

The caster can command any being with human blood in 
its veins. A single target, who is visible to the unaided eye 
of  the  sorcerer,  is  affected.  The  victim  carries  out  all  that 
is  commanded  by  the  caster,  even  to  self-destruction.  The 
spell  also  works  against  Lengites,  deep  one  hybrids,  ghoul 
changelings, Little People, serpent folk and deep ones who 
have interbred with humans, but doesn’t work on nonhu-
man entities such as shantaks or dimensional shamblers.

The caster intones the spell and relates the suggestion to 
the target. For the spell to take effect the caster must succeed 
in  an  opposed  POW  roll  with  the  target.  Extreme  sugges-
tions  involving  death  or  great  harm  require  a  second  op-
posed POW roll just before the suggestion is implemented.

The 