 Ubbo-Sathla

This god dwells in a cold, dank cavern, and never leaves its 
lair  unless  called  or  disturbed.  The  grotto  can  be  entered 
through deep fissures in the Antarctic ice or through secret 
entrances  from  the  Cold Waste  of  the  Dreamlands.  Other 
routes may exist.

Cult
Ubbo-Sathla  has  no  human  cult,  although  the  mi-go  and 
other alien races may worship it. The Book of Eibon and the 
Necronomicon mention this god.

Other Characteristics
The Unbegotten Source may have spawned the prototypes 
of all earthly life. It is hinted that it was from Ubbo-Sathla’s 
tissues that the elder things created their dread shoggoths. 
Within  the  grotto  of  Ubbo-Sathla,  several  tablets  of  star-
wrought  stone  rest,  said  to  contain  great  knowledge  and 
secrets  of  the  gods.  These  tablets,  the  Elder  Keys,  remain 
an  enigma.  Seeking  these  tablets,  even  the  most  powerful 
sorcerers have failed to return.

An observer sees hundreds of pseudopods forming, flail-
ing about, grasping prey and being absorbed back into the 
body mass at all times. Remaining more than a few minutes 
in the god’s presence insures that one or more investigators 
will be attacked. 
Spawn  of  Ubbo-Sathla:  It  continually  produces  1D10 
offspring per round, some of which it eats and others that 
escape.  Those  surviving  fulfill  every  whim  and  urge  of 
their  primal,  mindless  sire.  Generally  encountered  only  in 
Ubbo-Sathla’s primal grotto, no two spawn are exactly 
alike. All prefer surprise attacks from ambush: 
some  attack  with  sticky  filaments,  some  with 
pseudopods,  some  with  gelatinous  tentacles, 
and so on. 

328 

Call of CthulhuFighting 75% (37/15), damage 1D6 per round when swallowed 
Swallow (mnvr) draws target into body, digested at 1D6 damage 

form—glowing, headless, naked and huge, with wet mouths 
opening in the palms of the hands.

per round

Armor: Immune to impale, projectile, and cutting weapons; fire, 

magic, and enchanted weapons harm them normally. 

Spells: None. 
Skills: Stealth 90%. 
Sanity Loss: 1/1D8 Sanity points to see a spawn of Ubbo-Sathla.

Y’golonac

He saw why the shadow on the frosted pane yesterday had 
been headless, and he screamed. As the desk was thrust aside 
by the towering naked figure, on whose surface still hung rags 
of the tweed suit, Strutt’s last thought was an unbelieving 
conviction that this was happening because he had read the 
Revelations…but before he could scream out his protest his 
breath was cut off, as the hands descended on his face and the 
wet red mouths opened in their palms.

—Ramsey Campbell, Cold Print

Y’golonac  is  delineated  in  the  Revelations  of  Gla'aki,  an 
arcane  book.  It  is  a  bloated,  glowing  figure  who  dwells 
underground  in  a  vast  ruin  behind  a  wall  of  bricks.  This 
prison may be near the Severn Valley city of Brichester, for it 
is known to frequent that place. Y’golonac is known to come 
when its name is read or spoken while evil is present. It is a 
minor god, but malignant.

Cult
Y’golonac has little cult following, but strives mightily after 
more 