 all accumulated Cthulhu Mythos 
Skill points are immediately deducted as 
Sanity loss (see page 179).

Bonus  Die:  May  be  applied  by  the 
Keeper to a roll. Roll an additional "tens" 

percentile die alongside the usual pair of 
percentile  dice  when  making  a  skill  or 
characteristic roll. You are now rolling 3 
separate  dice;  one  "units"  die  and  two 
"tens" dice. Use the tens die that yields 
the better (lower) result (see page 91).

Bout of Madness: When going insane, 
an  investigator  initially  experiences  a 
bout  of  madness,  which  may  be  either 
"real  time"  or  "summary,"  dependent 
on the situation (see page 156).

Build:  A  measure  of  physical  size, 
strength  and  durability.  Used 
for 
animate  beings  and  inanimate  objects, 
allowing for an easy scale comparison. 

Campaign:  A  series  of  linked  scenario 
adventures in which the same group of 
investigators participate.

Characteristic: Eight characteristics are 
rolled  for  each  investigator—Strength 
(STR), Constitution (CON), Size (SIZ), 
Intelligence (INT), Power (POW), Dex-
terity  (DEX),  Appearance  (APP),  and 
Education (EDU). Other attributes such 
as  Sanity,  Magic  Points  and  Hit  Points 
are  derived  from  these  eight  core  char-
acteristics.  Characteristics  determine  a 
character’s fundamental capacities (see 
page 30).

Chase:  A  series  of  actions  within  de-
termined  locations  in  which  a  pursuit 
occurs.  Chases  may  take  place  on  foot 
or in vehicles (see page 132).

Cash: Derived from Credit Rating. Cash 
is readily available to the investigator to 
spend as and when they like (see page 
46).

Check: See Tick. 

Combined  Skill  Roll:  One  dice  roll  is 
made  and  compared  to  more  than  one 
skill. The Keeper may require success in 
one or all of the skills, depending on the 
situation (see page 55).

CON:  Constitution,  a  Characteristic. 
See Characteristic.

Consequence:  The  negative  outcome 
of  a  failed  Pushed  skill  roll  (see  page 
86).

Credit Rating: Determines the amount 
of  money  a  character  has  available  as 
either cash or assets. Also indicates the 
general  living  standards  a  person  can 
afford (see page 61).

Critical:  A  1D100  result  of  “01”  is 
always  a  success  and  the  best  result 
possible (see page 89).

Cthulhu:  (pronounced  “kuh-THOO-
loo”  in  Chaosiumese).  He  was  created 
in  tales  by  H.  P.  Lovecraft  and  since 
has  been  present  or  been  intimated  in 
stories by other authors. 

Cthulhu Mythos skill: A skill used to 
determine  a  character’s  knowledge  of 
the  true  gods,  entities,  monsters,  and 
fiendish  lore  of  the  cosmos  (see  page 
61). 

Damage:  Attacks  and  accidents  are 
said to “do damage”—that is, to create 
wounds  or  injuries.  Damage  values  are 
subtracted  from  hit  points  (see  page 
119).

Damage  Bonus  (DB):  Derived  by 
adding STR and SIZ together and refer-
encing  the  total  on  Table  1:  Damage 
Bonus (see page 33). 

Combat/Ch