. 

Sanity Loss: 1D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +2/+6 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 24
Study: 40 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  Call  Down  Spirit  (Summon/Bind 
Byakhee), Call Forth the Earth Spirit (Contact Ch-
thonian),  Contact  Ghoul,  Contact  Hound  of  Tin-
dalos, Contact Deity/Nyarlathotep, Door to Kadath 
(a Gate to Kadath), Restore Life (Resurrection).

Thaumaturgical Prodigies In The  
New-England Canaan
English, by Rev. Ward Phillips, 1788? 
Published in two editions, the second in Boston, 1801. Prim-
itive American octavo in imitation black letter. The interiors 
of the editions are the same, except for changes in printer, 
place of printing and edition date. Commonly found in ma-
jor libraries and historical society libraries in New England. 
Describes  the  blasphemies  of  witches,  warlocks,  shamans, 
and  other  Colonial-era  evildoers.  Details  of  events  in  and 
around Billington’s Woods. 

Sanity Loss: 1D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+3 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 12
Study: 8 weeks 
Suggested Spells: none, but annotations by Rev. Phillips 
in  his  personal  copy  reveal  Call/Dismiss  Ithaka 
(Ithaqua),  Contact  Deity/Narlato  (Nyarlathotep), 
Contact  Deity/Sadogowah  (Tsathoggua),  Contact 
Deity/Yogge Sothyothe (Yog-Sothoth), Elder Sign.

True Magick
English, by Theophilus Wenn, 17th century
A small and crumbling hand-bound manuscript, nonetheless 
describable as a veritable encyclopedia of Devil’s lore. 

Sanity Loss: 1D8
Cthulhu Mythos: +2/+4 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 18
Study: 24 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  Call  for  Spirit  of  the  Air  (Summon/
Bind Star Vampire), Call Forth the One (Summon/
Bind  Servitor  of  the  Outer  Gods),  Call  Forth  the 
Winged One (Summon/Bind Byakhee), Speak with 
the Dark One (Contact Deity/Nyogtha).

Zanthu Tablets
English, by Prof. Harold Hadley Copeland, 1916
A brochure subtitled “A Conjectural Translation” printed in 
400 copies. Translates carvings found on black jade tablets 
drawn up from the Pacific Ocean by fishermen. The author 
claims the carvings are hieratic Naacal, the high language of 
ancient Mu. The brochure describes the worship of Ghatan-
othoa, Shub-Niggurath, and Cthulhu.

Sanity Loss: 1D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+2 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 9
Study: 8 weeks 
Suggested  Spells:  the  text  is  partially  expurgated  and 
contains no spells. The original Muvian tables con-
tain Contact Deity/Cthulhu, Ghatanothoa, Lloigor, 
Yuggya, and Zoth-Ommog.

Occult Books
Owners of Mythos tomes are likely also to own occult (non-
Mythos) volumes.

An  occult  book  usually  adds  at  least  one  point  to  the 
Occult  skill  after  reading.  There  are  thousands  of  occult 
volumes. Here is a small sampling for Keepers to use on the 
bookshelves of libraries, collectors, and cults.

Reading  an  occult  book  usually  costs  no  Sanity.  Oth-
erwise  the  same  rules  apply  to  occult  books  as  to  Myth