 the spell succeeds.

Reciting the spell backward returns the resurrected enti-
ty to dust and likewise requires the expenditure of 3 magic 
points  and  1D10  Sanity  points.  The  dust  can  be  retained 
or thrown away. For the spell to take effect the caster must 
succeed in an opposed POW roll with the target. If the caster 
wins, the victim returns to dust. If the victim wins, it may try 
to prevent the caster from reciting the spell again. Reciting 
the spell backward takes two rounds. In The Case of Charles 
Dexter Ward, many of those resurrected were interrogated 
and tortured to reveal secrets of the past.

Alternative  names:  The  Rite  of  Knowledge  Long  Lost, 

Recrudance, Rite of Salts.

Deeper Version
Calling up the powerful energies of the Mythos is one 
thing; shaping them through understanding and com-
prehension is another. Casters are able to inflict Resur-
rection without the need for a POW roll. In addition, 
the  caster  may  elect  to  induce  further  mental  terror 
for  the  victim;  while  reeling  from  the  energy  blast, 
the  target  believes  that  he  or  she  is  being  assaulted 
by horrific Mythos entities, causing 1/1D6 Sanity loss.

Song of Hastur
Cost: 1D4 magic points per round; 1D4 Sanity points per 
round
Casting time: 3 rounds before it begins to take effect 

A hideous wailing ululation by the caster causes the skin and 
flesh of the chosen victim to bubble and fester into pestilent 
blobs.

The target must be visible to the caster. Though everyone 
can hear the song, the spell affects only the person chosen as 
target. This spell will not work except at night and only if the 
star Aldebaran is visible. A roll equal to or under the caster’s 
POW must be made to sing the correct alien melody.

Successfully  cast,  the  spell  causes  the  target  1D6  hit 
points damage per round the spell is active. After every two 
rounds,  scarring  reduces  the  victim’s  APP  by  3D10.  After 
every four rounds, internal ruptures lower the victim’s CON 
by 3D10. When the victim’s CON reaches 0 or death occurs 
from  hit  point  loss,  the  body  swells  up  and  bursts  with  a 
sickening—pop!—as steamy gore spills onto the floor.

The  song  can  be  used  defensively,  to  guard  against 
another  caster  of  this  spell.  Successful  opposing  castings 
neutralize each other.

262 

Call of CthulhuAlternative  names:  The  King’s  Cry,  Music  of  the  Court 
in Yellow, Bring Forth the Festering Boil of Great Agony and 
Torment.

bound; with a failure, it attacks the caster and then returns 
from whence it came. Bound, the thing must obey one order 
by the caster, even to attacking its own kind, after which it is 
freed and returns from whence it came.

Deeper Version
The  clarity  of  understanding  and  tuning  to  the 
mysteries  of  Hastur  allow  the  caster  to  comprehend 
the  secrets  of  Hali  and  the  necessary  alignments  of 
Aldebaran in space and time. Thus the spell may be 
cast when Aldebaran is not visible in the night sky. 

In  addition,  the  caster  may  weave  an  echo  of  the 
song into a piece of yellow cloth taken from the court 
of the King in Yellow. Investing 20 magic points into the 
pale material means that the next person to touch the 
cloth suffers the effects of the spell for 10 rounds—the 
victim may attempt to roll equal to or below