 writings also 
indicated how to force away or dispel those dreadful entities. 
It takes time to learn, even from textbooks that have been 
carefully written and specially laid out just for that purpose. 
Studying the crabbed, idiosyncratic, and infinitely more dif-
ficult Mythos books takes much more time and dedication. 
These musty, thick books are often clumsily scribed by men 
whose  sanity  has  long  since  been  erased  by  the  horror  of 
their  experiments,  trials,  and  conjectures.  The  present  day 
apparatus of scholarship does not exist in such books. There 
are no indices, no glossaries, no tables of contents, and no 
careful  definitions.  There  may  not  be  numbered  pages, 
chapters, paragraphs, punctuation, or even breaks between 
words. Some tomes might best be described as the ravings of 
mad men—yet to the seeker of dark knowledge, such texts 
hold wondrous insights and power.

Many manuscripts are not even in a known alphabet—
some  are  older  than  time,  in  languages  long  lost;  others 
are written in occult ciphers to stymie witch-finders or the 
Inquisition, and now must be cracked before the would-be 
reader can ponder the sinister truths they conceal.

Even if a sorcerer wrote for others who were familiar with 
the arcane and occult, the writing was for adepts and cultists, 
not  laypersons.  Strange  terms  and  ideas  would  be  written 
with no explanation. Valuable annotations might be made by 
a succession of owners, each perhaps in a different language 
or with a different aim, and some inscribed in error.

Many  Mythos  tomes  are  ancient  and  must  be  handled 
with care. Some are delicate and liable to crumble to dust if 
the reader doesn’t wear thin gloves and turn the pages with 
padded forceps. Some whisper that certain tomes are more 
than  merely  pages  bound  in  leather;  that  they  are  "living" 
things, intent on sowing their evil taint on the unwary and 
acting as direct conduits to the horrors of the Outer Gods. 

Only in the present does the technology exist with which 

to make quick and accurate copies.

An aspiring occult student attempts to cast a spell.

Reading Mythos Books
Opening  a  Mythos  tome  is  a  dangerous  business.  It  was 
written by someone who had experienced the Mythos and, 
if the reader is successful in understanding what is written, 
this  book  will  act  as  a  conduit  to  the  alien  horrors  of  the 
Cthulhu Mythos. Opening the cover of a tome might be lik-
ened to opening a door to a burning room. By opening this 
door the reader is exposed to the fire and may be scorched 
or  incinerated.  The  human  mind  is  metaphorically  burnt 
by the knowledge of the Mythos, the  very act  of trying  to 
comprehend the material causing the reader to suffer both 
mentally and physically. Some of the lesser tomes might only 
be a small fire, but others, such as the dread Necronomicon, 
are a raging inferno.

When an investigator gains access to a Mythos tome, the 
Keeper should describe the cover and look of the book. The 
reader can swiftly ascertain whether the tome is written in a 
language he or she understands. Refer to Language (other) 
skill  (page  66)  for  rules  on  recognizing  and  reading  other 
languages. A translator must be found if a book is written 
in  a  language  unknown  by  the  investigator.  The  Keeper 
should  decide  what  gets  translated,  how  quickly,  and  how 
accurately. If the language is unknown or long forgotten, the 
investigators must come up with a plan that convinces the 
Keeper, or else the