  numerous  interconnected  or 
separate plots can be set for the investigators to discover over 
the course of play. Should the players go off at a tangent, the 
Keeper is well-versed enough in the setting to accommodate 
the  developing  story.  Note  that  you  are  not  writing  a  story 
when  you  create  a  non-linear  scenario.  Above  all,  you  do 
not script an ending—avoid this at all costs! You may write 
a backstory, but it must stop where the game starts. What you 
are creating is plot elements (non-player characters, locations, 
etc.), but how these are woven together into a story is decided 
during play. You may also make a timeline of events that will 
take place in the story if the course of events is not altered by 
the investigators, but you must be ready to alter the events on 
the timeline according to the actions of the players.

Sometimes  the  players  will  miss  clues  or  head  down  a 
path  the  Keeper  did  not  foresee.    This  is  fine;  in  fact,  it  is 
better than fine, as some of the best parts of a game are those 
improvised in play. 

Non-linear  adventures  give  the  player's  choice  in  how  to 
proceed. The very fact that unexpected things will happen be-
cause of the players’ choices makes for a more exciting game for 
everyone—the Keeper included. In this sense, the story really 
does become a collaboration between the Keeper and players. 

The  King in Yellow, an avatar of Hastur

on and have decided to confront the big villain or at least 
have a workable solution to solve the mystery. All this comes 
to a climax, when the truth is (probably) revealed, the vil-
lain caught or dispatched, and some form of resolution is 
reached.

Linear adventures can be characterized like a car journey. 
If you know your destination you can plan a route—perhaps 
driving a certain way to take in some wonderful scenery. If 
you encounter bad traffic en route, you can make a detour. 
This  might  affect  your  journey  time  but  you’ll  still  get  to 
your  destination  in  the  end.  The  scenario  starts  at  point 
“A” and ends at point “E,” with the investigators journeying 
through points “B,” “C,” and “D” en route. 

Let’s take a look at one of the scenarios in this book—
Amidst  the  Ancient  Trees  (page  346).  The  scenario 
begins at point A, as the investigators are called to join 
a posse to find a missing girl. Point B would encompass 
the  various  scenes  that  may  be  encountered  before 
entering point C. The order in which the investigator’s 
play through the scenes is more-or-less up to them and 
the keeper, but eventually they will encounter the lake 
for the climax of the scenario (Point D).

As you can see, the plot is driven in one direction 
by  the  acquisition  of  clues  and  sparse  information. 
Think of it like a train track—the story can only go 
one  way. This  is  fine  for  novice  Keepers  and  players 
who  are  getting  to  grips  with  the  game.  However,  it 
relies on the players doing what is expected of them—
following the clues in the right order.

217 

chapter 10: playing the gameLet's  take  the  plot  of  well-known  horror  film,  John  Car-
penter’s  The  Thing,  as  the  basis  for  a  Call  of  Cthulhu 
scenario. The basic summary of the film is as follows:

The  crew  of  a  remote  Antarctic  research  facility  un-
wittingly  takes  in  a  shape-shifting  alien  that  proceeds  to 
murder and replicate