
(3D6+30 ×5)
(8D6 ×5)
(2D4 ×50)
(3D6 ×5)
(4D6+6 ×5)
(4D6 ×5)

LLOIGOR, Masters of telekinesis
char. 
(STR)* 
(CON)* 
(SIZ)* 
DEX 
INT 
POW 
(HP:)* 39
(Average Damage Bonus:)* +5D6
Average Build: 6
Average Magic Points: 14
Move: 7 / 3 through stone as immaterial
*(While in reptilian form)

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1 (2 while in reptilian form)
Fighting  attacks:  Lloigor  can  attack  in  many  ways,  including 
strikes, claw, and bite attacks while in reptilian form. Otherwise, 
they may use one of their special powers or a vortex attack.
Vortex Attack:  The  lloigor’s  most  fearsome  weapon  is  a  type  of 
implosion sounding like the roll of distant thunder. Things in 
the  blast  area  are  torn  to  pieces  and  the  ground  is  ruptured. 
At least 100 magic points are needed for an area ten meters in 
diameter. Everything within the circle loses 1D100 hit points. 
Alert  investigators  may  notice  the  tell-tale  effects  of  swirling 
lines appearing in the air and a half-unheard throbbing noise 
penetrating their bodies.

Fighting 30% (15/6), damage 1D6 + damage bonus 
Dodge 26% (13/5)
Armor: 8-point reptilian hide. In the immaterial state it cannot be 

harmed by physical weapons, magical or not.

Sanity  Loss:  0/1D8  as  reptile;  invisible—no  Sanity  loss;  mind 

contact costs 1/1D4 Sanity points.

Cases of "lost time" have been reported in locales close 
to the lairs of lloigor. Such instances seem to carry com-
mon features including a general lethargy in the adult 
populace  and  individuals  displaying  acute  narcolepsy, 
with  a  tendency  to  describe  long  periods  of  lost  time 
where  they  cannot  remember  what  has  happened  to 
them. At one moment the individual remembers walk-
ing along a country lane, only to then find that he or 
she is standing atop a cliff with no memory of traveling 
there. In recent times, such instances have at times been 
attributed to UFO "close encounter" phenomena. 

It is believed that the lloigor originally came to Earth from 
the Andromeda galaxy and that their first earthly colony was 
on a lost continent somewhere in the Indian Ocean, possibly 
the same sunken continent that now bears the city of R’lyeh 
and  its  star-spawn  with  it.  The  lloigor  used  human  slaves 
to  perform  their  will  and  used  cruel  disciplines  to  control 
recalcitrant slaves, such as amputating limbs or causing can-
cer-like tentacular growths to sprout on them. Earthly lloigor 
continued to decay and decline, and they retreated under the 
earth and seas, where they still husband their failing energies.
Wales, Rhode Island, and Iraq are places where lloigor are 
known to have acted in recent memory. They are hinted at 
in the folklore of Haiti, Polynesia, and Massachusetts. Some 
Lloigor  are  linked  with  the  Great  Old  One  Ghatanothoa, 
while others may have connections to or worship Ithaqua.

SPECIAL POWERS

Drain Magic Points from Humans: Typically, lloigor human 
servants come from families with histories of mental instabil-
ity. The lloigor need humans to survive, as these immaterial 
entities must draw energy from intelligent beings to perform 
necessary tasks. By expending one of its own