 power  of  the  Mythos,  which  corrupts  and 
ruins by proximity and association. 

An investigator’s Sanity points may rise and fall during 
play;  however,  they  may  never  rise  above  the  character’s 
maximum Sanity rating. Each investigator has a maximum 
Sanity  point  value  that  begins  at  99.  Knowledge  of  the 
Cthulhu Mythos always lowers an investigator’s maximum 
Sanity  points.  Maximum  Sanity  points  equal  99  minus 
current Cthulhu Mythos points (99–Cthulhu Mythos skill). 
When  gaining  Cthulhu  Mythos  skill  points,  the  player 
should decrease the investigator’s maximum Sanity by the 
same amount.

Harvey  Walters  spends  some  time  perusing  ancient 
tomes, gaining 3% Cthulhu Mythos skill. His player 
adds 3 points to Harvey’s Cthulhu Mythos skill and 
decreases his maximum Sanity from 99 to 96.

Insanity 

From that point forward my impressions are scarcely to be 
relied on—indeed, I still possess a final, desperate hope that 
they all form parts of some daemonic dream or illusion born 
of delirium. A fever raged in my brain, and everything came 
to me through a kind of haze—sometimes only intermittently.
—H.P. Lovecraft, The Shadow Out of Time

In Call of Cthulhu, insanity is induced by traumatic experi-
ences and the ghastly comprehension that connects to the 
Cthulhu Mythos. The duration of the insane state depends 
upon the number or proportion of Sanity points lost. 

Three states of insanity can result: temporary, indefinite, 

and permanent.

Regardless of whether the insanity is temporary or in-

definite, it will consist of three distinct game phases:

First: the insanity begins with a brief “bout of madness,” during 
which the player’s control of their investigator is compromised 
(see Insanity Phase 1: A Bout of Madness, page 156). 

Second:  the  bout  of  madness  is  followed  by  a  period  of 
underlying  insanity,  during  which  the  player  retains  full 
control  of  their  investigator;  however,  the  investigator  is 
prone to delusions, phobias, and further bouts of madness 
(see Insanity Phase 2: Underlying Insanity, page 158). 

Third: the final phase is recovery (see Treatment and Re-
covery from Insanity, page 164).

Temporary Insanity 
If an investigator loses 5 or more Sanity points as the result 
of  one  Sanity  roll,  sufficient  emotional  trauma  has  been 
suffered that the Keeper must test the investigator’s sanity. 
The Keeper asks for an Intelligence (INT) roll. If the roll is 

Examples of Sanity  
Point Costs
Surprised to find mangled animal carcass. 
Surprised to find a corpse or body part. 
See a stream flow with blood. 
Find a horrifically mangled human corpse. 
Awake trapped in a coffin. 
Witness a friend’s violent death. 
See a ghoul. 
Meet someone you know to be dead. 
Undergo severe torture. 
See a corpse rise from its grave. 
See gigantic severed head fall from sky. 

0/1D2 
0/1D3  
0/1D4  
1/1D4+1  
0/1D6  
0/1D6  
0/1D6  
1/1D6+1  
0/1D10  
1/1D10  
2/2D10+1  
1D10/1D100   See Great Cthulhu. 

155 

chapter 8: sanityfailed, the investigator has repressed the memory (a trick the 
mind  uses  to  protect  itself),  and  does  not  become  insane. 
Perversely, if the INT roll succeeds, the investigator recog-
nizes the