udite  bibliophiles,  historians,  and  by  a  few  in  the  rare 
book  trade.  While  it  is  unlikely  that  such  books  will  be 
found  on  the  shelves  of  the  common  public  library,  some 

can be found in the rare book sections of certain universities 
and in private collections. Apart from those listed, other ver-
sions, as well as lesser Mythos works exist, as do incidental 
notebooks, diaries, and letters. Keepers are advised to review 
the entries for inspiration when designing new volumes of 
forgotten lore, cultist notebooks, and so on.

Where  two  dates  are  noted  for  multiple  Mythos  books: 
the latter date in each case is the date ascribed in the original 
story. Some dates are conjectural. If available at all, the num-
ber of copies listed reflects those known to be held in public 
and private collections. More existing copies are very likely. 

Dimensions given are traditional, since actual sizes often 
vary between copies. Folios range from 12.5" × 20" to 10" 
×  15".  Quartos  vary  between  10"  ×  12.5"  and  7.5"  ×  10". 
Octavos range between 6.25" × 10" and 5" × 7.5".

The  summaries  also  include  average  weeks  of  study  per 
book. When using such numbers, take into account the indi-
vidual reader’s skills and profession. Use the times and dates 
given here as comparative indicators of difficulty. Each inves-
tigator will study and comprehend a book at a different rate.

Key
Sanity Loss: Automatic Sanity loss for reading the tome.

Cthulhu  Mythos:  First  number  shows  Cthulhu  Myhthos 
points  gained  from  an  Initial  reading  (CMI).  Second  number 
shows Cthulhu Mythos points gained for a Full reading (CMF), 
see page 174-175. 

Mythos  Rating:  Percentage  chance  for  finding  a  useful 
reference within the tome, see pages 175.

Study: Suggested time required to conduct a Full reading of 
the tome.

Suggested  Spells:  A  list  of  possible  spells  to  be  found 
within the tome. 

Al Azif—see Necronomicon.

Azathoth and Others
English, Edward Derby, 1919
A collection of the Arkham-born poet’s early works. Pub-
lished in Boston in a pocket-sized edition, 3.5" × 5.5" and 
bound  in  black  leather.  Approximately  1,400  copies  were 
printed and sold. 

Sanity Loss: 1D4
Cthulhu Mythos: +1/+3 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 12
Study: 1 week 
Suggested Spells: none.

225 

chapter 11: Tomes of Eldritch LoreBook of Dzyan
English, author/translation unknown, reputedly of ancient origin
Long referred to by theosophist Helena Blavatsky, a copy of this 
tome has never been verified. Said to be a translation of man-
uscripts original to Atlantis. Also called the Stanzas of Dzyan. 
Portions of this work were translated as The Secret Doctrine, but 
that includes no spells or other Mythos information. 

Sanity Loss: 1D6
Cthulhu Mythos: +3/+6 percentiles
Mythos Rating: 27
Study: 14 weeks
Suggested Spells: Call Forth Childe of the Woode (Sum-
mon/Bind  Dark  Young),  Call  Forth  Wind  Spirit 
(Summon/Bind Byakhee), Call Forth The Unseen 
Walker  (Summon/Bind  Dimensional  Shambler), 
Dream Vision (Contact Deity/Cth