 extremities.  Its  face  is  a  mass  of  wrinkles. 
No features are visible. Its sickly brown-green skin is loose 
and strips of decaying flesh flap from its limbs. It drips the 
same  filthy  brown  water  you’ve  seen  earlier.  You  must  all 
make Sanity rolls. If you succeed you lose 1 point, if you fail 
it’s going to be 1D10 points! 

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  He  doesn’t  have  the  time.  Everyone, 
try Listen rolls for your investigators (Joe, Arnold, and Cathy 

JOE: I made my roll successfully.

ARNOLD: Hooray! I made mine too.

15 

chapter 1: introductionRead Me— 
How to Use this Book

This book contains everything that you need to play Call 
of Cthulhu—except for dice, pencils, notepaper, and some 
friends. A wealth of support material for this game exists, 
including short, quick-play scenarios, world-encompass-
ing  campaigns  played  across  many  gaming  sessions, 
setting books, online forums, and so on. 

Before  you  run  this  game  for  the  first  time,  you 
should become familiar with the rules and concepts of 
Call of Cthulhu. This rulebook is divided into a number 
of key sections.

The  Rules  Section—everything  that  you  need  to 
know  to  play  the  game,  including  creating  investiga-
tors, the game’s rules and tips on how to get the most 
from Call of Cthulhu.

Keeper’s Reference Section—this is only for those 
who intend to run games of Call of Cthulhu (i.e. the 
Keeper). Call of Cthulhu is a game about mysteries and 
secrets, and reading these pages of reference may spoil 
your  enjoyment  if  you’re  not  planning  on  being  the 
Keeper of Arcane Lore.

If you are new to Call of Cthulhu we recommend 
you read this Introduction all the way through (espe-
cially the Example of Play on pages 13—16). Next, 
read through the rules. In addition to this, if you plan 
to run the game yourself, you should also read Chap-
ter  10:  Playing  the  Game  and  familiarize  yourself 
with the rest of the Keeper’s Reference Section (pages 
182—344). Finally, choose one of the scenarios from 
the  back  of  this  book  (Amidst  the  Ancient  Trees  is  a 
good choice). You will then be ready to run your first 
game!

However, if you are already familiar with H.P. Love-
craft and previous versions of the Call of Cthulhu game, 
you will probably want to jump straight into Chapter 
3:  Creating  Investigators  and  become  familiar  with 
the rules of this new edition.

16 

CATHY: I blew it. (Garrie rolls the Sanity loss, getting 
3) Jake lost 3 Sanity points!

(GARRIE) KEEPER: (Paula also fails the roll). Gar-
rie  rolls  Sanity  loss  for  Paula’s  investigator,  getting 
9.  Paula,  your  investigator  is  really  shocked  by  the 
horror in front of him. Lose 9 points of Sanity.

PAULA: Uh-oh! I’m really scared!

(GARRIE) KEEPER: Let’s see (He examines her in-
vestigator’s sheet). Paula, your investigator could be 
temporarily  insane,  since  you’ve  lost  over  5  Sanity 
points.  Unless  you  roll  higher  than  his  Intelligence 
on 1D100, it’s all going to be too much for him to 
take and he’ll faint (Paula rolls a 04 and her investi-
gator faints).

(GARRIE)  KEEPER:  Since  Paula’s  investigator  was 
holding