 and  ask  questions.  That 
statement may sound obvious; however, these investigations 
will lead the players to ask questions regarding matters you 
have not considered. If there has been a murder, for exam-
ple,  you  need  to  have  a  clear  vision  of  what  has  occurred 
at the scene. You also need to decide how the murder took 
place.  A  player  may  ask  if  there  are  muddy  footprints  on 
the study carpet, whether there are any witnesses, or if the 
murder weapon has been thrown in the trash. If you have 
a  good  grasp  of  how  events  unfolded,  you  can  provide  a 
reliable  answer,  even  to  unanticipated  questions. You  may 
not  have  considered  a  certain  detail  previously  and  hence 
don’t instantly know if there is mud on the study carpet, for 
example. Since you know how the murder took place, you 

Perception Rolls
There are three main perception skills in Call of Cthulhu:

i  Spot Hidden: Chiefly visual observation, though it 

can also be used for smell or taste.

i  Listen: Perceiving and identifying sounds.
i  Psychology:  Understanding  the  motivations  and 

intentions of another person.

If a player succeeds in a roll for a perception skill, some 
information pertinent to the scenario should be forthcom-
ing (referred to as a clue).

The Keeper will usually be the one to ask for perception 
rolls, however sometimes a player may request one if his or 
her investigator is actively searching for a clue, for example 

201 

chapter 10: playing the gameThe main goal for investigators is to find out what is happening.

exploring a room (Spot Hidden) or attempting to determine 
if someone is lying (Psychology). 

Avoid  having  a  single  concealed  clue  that  is  the  key  to 
the  whole  adventure—despite  the  Keeper’s  best  efforts, 
the players could miss it, especially in a scenario in which 
the location of the key clue may be bypassed. A variety of 
strategies exist. You can ensure that important information 
is accessible in several ways. The information need not be 
precisely the same or appear in the same manner; however, 
it should be enough to point the investigators in the right 
direction. If ultimately they do miss the clue, don’t worry—
you always have the Idea roll (page 199) to fall back on. 

Clues are divided into two categories: obvious clues and 
obscure clues. You decide which prior to the dice being rolled. 

Obvious Clues
If  you  have  something  you  want  the  players  to  find  out 
about, you should make the clue obvious. Obvious clues are 
useful if your game is plot-driven, especially when missing 
such a clue would leave the players at a loss for how to pro-
ceed.  The  players  are  not  required  to  roll  dice  to  uncover 
obvious clues. 

There  may  be  obvious  clues  and  obscured  clues  at  the 
same  location.  It  might  be  obvious  that  a  book  has  been 
moved by the dust marks on the desk, but the single blonde 
hair  lying  in  the  dust  might  go  unnoticed.  The  first  piece 
of information—that the book was moved—is an obvious 
clue, while the blonde hair is an obscured clue.

If the clue is likely to be perceived by just one player among 
the group, it is up to you who you give it to; perhaps the player 
who has been least actively involved in the game, or the player 
of the investigator with the highest Spot Hidden score.

The investigators are looking for a cultist in the town. 
The Keeper has prepared a cool scene that takes place 
in a haunted house; however, the players don’t know 
about  it  yet.  The  Keeper  wants  the  investigators 