  unnerving  effect,  putting 
anybody nearby on edge and giving them the feeling 
of being watched. Ask for Listen rolls to hear a seem-
ing presence in the adjoining (empty) room (a Sign of 
Passage); such events are affecting the Doctor’s sanity.
The  Horror  may  manifest  through  Leiter’s  corpse 
(see  Signs  of  Passage),  raising  it  up  as  a  zombie  to 
cause  mayhem.  This  should  not  happen  during  the 
investigators’  first  visit,  but  could  happen  later  if  the 
investigators return with the mobsters or Lucy Stone. 
Alternatively the investigators may get a call when the 
thing breaks out of the school in the dead of night.

Autopsy  Results:  The  basic  results  as  found  by 
Wheatcroft are that Leiter suffered a massive heart at-
tack causing almost instantaneous death. In addition, 
the  body  suffered  violent  muscular  spasms  and,  by 
some  means,  severe  thermal  damage  of  the  optic  tis-
sues, akin to the effects of boiling the vitreous matter, 
cause  unknown.  Simultaneous  organ  failure  occurred 
all over the body and even his gut flora are dead, which 
is slowing the rate of decomposition. None of this is 
in any way normal or explicable by any outside cause.

T  Court serves witness to the legitimate side of Leiter’s 
double life, his relationship with the faculty, and the 
prestige of the Hobbhouse documents.

T  She knows of the rivalry and disagreements between 

Leiter and Roach.

T  She  knows  that  Anthony  Flinders  was  an  unwel-
come visitor, who begrudged her position as Leiter’s 
assistant.

T  She  can  also  testify  to  Leiter’s  increasingly  erratic 
behavior in early September, which bordered on the 
paranoid. 

Professor Leiter's Corpse
T  Attempts to bring Court round to assist the investi-
gators may best be attempted with intelligence and 
wit. She is strongly disinclined and resistant to glib 
flattery,  manifested  in  her  skills  through  her  high 
Psychology score (55%), thus investigators will find 
the difficulty level for Charm rolls begins at Hard. 
She may reveal that she saw a receipt for a change 
of  locks  at  Leiter’s  apartment  (see  the  Timeline) 
on his desk. She has known for some time, through 
overheard  telephone  conversations,  that  Leiter  has 
a close woman friend who boards at an apartment 
near  Hibb’s  Roadhouse  in Arkham,  where—Court 
guesses—she  waitresses  and  whose  first  name  is 
Lucy, but knows no more than this.

Roleplaying hooks
T  Court is keen to prove her worth in the eyes of the 

investigators; how can she help?

T  She is seeking to discredit Flinders and Roach, and 

will likely place the blame on them.

Keeper’s  Notes:  There’s  more  than  meets  the  eye  to 
Emilia Court. She is actually independently wealthy from old 
Providence stock, a fact she has kept hidden from everybody 
around her, preferring to make her way by merit and force of 
will into a field disinclined to her for both her relative youth 
and gender; her ultimate goal being awarded a professorship. 
These facts can be found out by some diligent digging around 
if  the  investigators  grow  suspicious  of  Court.  Regarded  as 
something of a cold fish by her peers, she is fiercely intelligent 
and regards the theft of the  Witch Trial Papers as a travesty 
that must be rectified. Court is also a good option for a player 

369 

chapter 15: scenariosto take over should an in-
vestigator  fatality  be  suf-
fered during the scenario! 
(As  long