30 magic points, the 
wave is ten feet long, ten feet wide and thirty feet high. Each 
additional magic point adds a foot to the length and width 
of the wave.

Alternative names: Song of the Ocean’s Fist, The Salt Gift, 

Ye Watery Doom.

Wither Limb 
Cost: 8 magic points; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: Instantaneous

A terrifying spell designed to torment and cause permanent 
damage to a target. The caster must be within 10 yards of 
the target. For the spell to take effect the caster must succeed 
in  an  opposed  POW  roll  with  the  target.  If  successful,  the 
caster nominates an arm or leg. The said appendage rapidly 
and  painfully  withers  and  shrivels,  causing  1D8  hit  points 
of damage and a permanent loss of 2D10 CON. The victim  
loses 1D4/1D8 Sanity points.

Alternative names: The Song of Pain, Shrivel Thy Enemy, 

The Wasting Burn.

Words of Power
Cost: 3+ magic points; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: 10+ minutes

The  caster  creates  an  intense  bond  with  a  large  group  of 
listeners.  The  caster  must  speak  extemporaneously  and 
seemingly from the heart, maintaining the audience’s atten-
tion. For each ten minutes of speech, the caster must expend 
3 magic points and make a successful communication roll 
as the Keeper thinks appropriate (Charm or Persuade), or 
the speech ends indecisively and in confusion. At the end of 
a successful speech, the audience thoroughly believes what 
has been said for 1D3 days.

Alternative names: Sekhmenkenhep’s Words, Beguile the 

Unrighteous, Mastery of the Mob.

Wrack 
Cost: 3 magic points; 1 Sanity point
Casting time: 1 round

This spell will temporarily incapacitate a single target who 
is within 10 yards of the caster. For the spell to take effect 
the caster must succeed in an opposed POW roll with the 
target. Intense, wracking pains seize the target, the face and 
hands blister and drip fluid, and the eyes cloud with blood 
and  become  temporarily  sightless.  The  target  is  rendered 
completely helpless during the period of the spell’s effect.

The effect lasts 1D6 rounds, after which sight returns. In 
3D10 minutes, the target fully recovers and can resume nor-
mal activity. Traces of physical corruption fade quickly and in 
24 hours only faint blemishes can be seen on the skin. Each 
such experience costs the target 1/1D6+1 Sanity points.

Alternative  names:  Woeful  Agony  of  the Wretched,  The 

Festering Blindness of the Seven Hells, Rend Enemy.

265 

chapter 12: grimoire266 

Call of Cthulhutend 

lthough  most 
to  see 
investigators 
creatures  of  the  Mythos  as  little  more  than 
malignant  monsters,  in  truth  many  of  them 
have  vibrant  and  technologically  advanced 
societies.  Advanced  races  such  as  the  elder 
things,  mi-go,  serpent  people,  and Yithians  all  possess  the 
ability to construct and utilize technology in the pursuit of 
their agendas.

Mythos  races,  human  cultists,  and  wizards  may  occa-
sionally have access to ancient and otherworldly artifacts as 
well as to scientific marvels. A selection of technology and 
arcane artifacts follows.

Most  humans  would  be  unable  to  tell  the  difference 
between  a  piece  of  advanced  scientific  equipment  and  a 
magical  Mythos  artifact,  as  both  are  essentially  beyond 
mankind’s level of comprehension