  may  feel  repetitive.  Picture  the  scene  and  grab  what 
comes to mind. If the fight takes place in a bar, you should 

No Pushing 
Combat Rolls
There is no option to 
push combat rolls (either 
Fighting or Firearms). Skill 
rolls are resolved with one 
or two rolls, but combat 
is resolved with a sequence 
of rolls. Pushing a skill 
roll indicates a subsequent 
attempt—a concerted 
effort to succeed. In 
combat this subsequent 
attempt would be your 
next punch or your next 
shot, i.e. your next attack.

Does the Monster 
Fight Back or 
Dodge?
The default mode for monsters 
and non-player character is to 
fight back rather than dodge. This 
serves to make combat quicker and 
simpler for the Keeper. Monsters 
and non-player characters should 
only use dodge when their priority 
is to escape.

Frying pans make excellent improvised weapons.

be  swinging  pool  cues,  throwing  bottles,  and  hitting  each 
other with barstools. Fire pokers, hat stands, and ornamen-
tal swords may be to hand in a mansion. Computer mon-
itors,  power  cables,  and  scissors  could  all  be  deadly  in  an 
office. As Keeper, encourage your players to improvise and 

104 

Call of Cthulhudon’t block their ideas without good reason. If you want to 
introduce the hand of fate to determine whether that handy 
improvised weapon is present, call for a Luck roll.

Fighting Maneuvers
If a player describes a goal other than simply inflicting phys-
ical  harm,  such  as  disarming  their  opponent  or  knocking 
them  over,  then  it  can  be  resolved  with  a  maneuver.  This 
may include pushing someone out of the way, throwing the 
opponent  to  the  floor,  restraining  someone  in  a  headlock, 
disarming an opponent, and so on.

Step 1: Compare Builds
Clearly skill is an important factor in performing a success-
ful  fighting  maneuver,  but  size  and  strength  also  have  an 
effect.  A  small,  skillful  fighter  might  unbalance  or  disarm 
a  larger  opponent,  but  there  are  limits.  No  human  is  ever 
going to be able to wrestle a huge monster such as a Dark 
Young  of  Shub-Niggurarth  to  the  ground,  whatever  their 
skill.  Conveniently,  Size  and  Strength  are  already  factored 
into each character’s Build, and thus by comparing these we 
may gauge the relative might of the opponents. 

Old Man Birch has a good left hook.

Harvey: DEX 55

Fighting (Brawl) skill: 25 (Regular) / 12 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 27 (Regular) / 13 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)

Old Man Birch: DEX 60     

Fighting (Brawl) skill: 40 (Regular) / 20 (Hard) / 8 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 30 (Regular) / 15 (Hard) / 6 (Extreme)

The first round:

Things go badly for Harvey when he fails to sneak around the house, leading to an encounter with Old Man Birch, 

who tries to punch the intruder.

Old Man Birch has the higher DEX and therefore goes first. 

Old Man Birch’s Action:

The Keeper picks up the dice and states that Old Man Birch is swinging a fist at Harvey. Harvey’s reaction is to duck. 
The Keeper will therefore roll against Old Man Birch’s Fighting (Brawl) skill and will be opposed by Harvey’s Dodge skill.

The Keeper rolls 04 for Old Man Birch’s Fighting (Brawl) skill—an Extreme success.
Harvey requires an Extreme level of success to avoid the blow. Harvey’s player rolls 25 for Harvey’s Dodge skill—a 

Regular success. Not good enough.

Old Man Birch deals 1D