 bleed and from which emanates a 
network of red lines. The victim is then an undead slave, a 
servant of Gla'aki.
Conditions:  if  the  damage  from  the  spine  fails  to  kill  the 
target  before  the  fluid  is  injected,  the  victim  becomes  an 
undead  horror,  but  is  not  subject  to  the  will  of  Gla'aki.  If 
possible Gla'aki has its servants capture such an individual 
and hold him or her while it drives in another spine to force 
proper  servitude.  If  the  victim  manages  to  break  off  the 
spine during the round in which he or she is stabbed and 
before the fluid is injected, he or she dies anyway but does 
not become an undead slave of Gla'aki. In the rare instance 
that the spine does not cause enough damage to kill the vic-
tim, and is broken off before the fluid is injected, the victim 
can remain a normal human being. Gla'aki’s undead slaves 
may hold novices tightly to prevent them from breaking off 
spines prematurely.

SIZ 450 

CON 300 

Gla'aki, The Inhabitant of the Lake
STR 200 
POW 140  HP 75
Damage Bonus: +7D6
Build: 8
Magic Points: 28
Move: 6

DEX 50 

INT 150

319 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsGla'aki

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Attacks with its spines, either ramming them or 

shooting them into the target.
Fighting 100% (50/20), damage 3D10 
Armor:  40-point  integument.  Each  spine  has  4  points  of  armor 

and 6 hit points.

Spells:  Gla'aki  knows  most  spells,  and  teaches  many  to  his  wor-

shiper-slaves.

Sanity Loss: 1D3/1D20 Sanity points to see Gla'aki. 

Hastur the Unspeakable
Utterly alien landscape…Foreground a deep lake. Hali? In five 
minutes the water began to ripple where something rose. Facing 
inward. A titanic aquatic being, tentacled. Octopoid, but far, 
far larger—ten—twenty times larger than the giant Octopus 
apallyon of the west coast. What was its neck alone easily fifteen 
rods in diameter. Could not risk chance of seeing its face.

—August Derleth, The Gable Window

Hastur

Hastur  the  Unspeakable  dwells  near  the  star Aldebaran  in 
the  constellation  Taurus.  He  is  connected  with  the  mystic 
Lake  of  Hali,  the Yellow  Sign,  and  Carcosa,  as  well  as  the 
things that dwell therein. He may be connected in some way 
with the power of flight through space. 

His  appearance  is  disputed.  In  a  reported  instance  of 
possession by Hastur, a corpse took on a bloated scaly look, 
and the limbs became boneless and fluid. The things in the 
Lake of Hali look octopoid from a rear view and are related 
to  Hastur.  They  also  have  unbearably  horrible  faces.  Still, 
Hastur’s appearance is largely up to the individual Keeper. 

Hastur  is  served  well  by  the  byakhee,  an  interstellar 

flying race.

Cult
The  cult  of  Hastur  is  moderately  common  on  Earth,  and 
the abominable tcho-tcho peoples are reputedly among his 
worshipers, as are the Brothers of the Yellow Sign. Hastur’s 
cult  is  particularly  loathsome,  and