 roll: apply the usual rules for a firearms attack 
roll (set difficulty by range and then apply any modifiers).

Sometimes taking cover is more advantageous than fighting back.

114 

Call of CthulhuHarvey  is  investigating  the  disappearance  of  his  old  friend,  Nott.  He  hears  a  strange  sound  coming  from  an  upstairs 
room, pulls out his gun (.38 revolver), and cautiously opens the door. Peering inside, Harvey sees a shape crouching in 
the semidarkness—he wonders if it is human or animal. Harvey calls out, “Stop where you are. I’m armed!” Baring teeth 
and hissing, the thing rears up and charges at Harvey, who lets off a shot, and the Keeper begins a combat round. Sanity 
rolls would have to be made for encountering these monsters, but this will be explained in a later chapter—for now let’s 
accept that Harvey remains steadfast.
Harvey: DEX 55

Firearms (Handgun) skill: 20 (Regular) / 10 (Hard) / 4 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 27 (Regular) / 13 (Hard) / 5 (Extreme)
Damage Bonus: none
Build: 0 
Hit points: 15

Monster: DEX 60     

Fighting (Brawl) skill: 40 (Regular) / 20 (Hard) / 8 (Extreme)
Dodge skill: 30 (Regular) / 15 (Hard) / 6 (Extreme)
Damage Bonus: none
Build: 0
Hit points: 14

Round one:

Harvey has already announced he is firing and will do so on DEX 105 (DEX+50) since his gun was readied (see 
Firearms and the DEX Order,  page  112). The  creature  goes  second  with  its  DEX  of  60. Without  a  readied  firearm, 
Harvey would have acted after the creature.

Harvey’s action:
Harvey’s handgun can fire up to three shots each round, but he decides to fire only one steady shot to maximize his 
chance of hitting. As the target is within the base range of the handgun, Harvey requires a Regular level of success to hit. 
This shot is taken at point-blank range, so he gets a bonus die on the attack roll (see Point-Blank Range, page 113). 
Harvey’s Handgun skill is 20%, and he hits with a Regular success (rolling a possible 58 or 18). The revolver does 1D10 
damage, blowing a chunk out of the creature (5 points of damage).

Monster’s action:
Now that it is upon him, Harvey can clearly see the creature is not human at all, but more dog-like. It attacks him 

with its clawed forelimbs. Harvey opts to dodge the attack. 

The Keeper rolls 31 for the creature’s attack, using its Fighting skill of 40—a success. 
Harvey’s player rolls 12 (under half his skill—a Hard success) for his dodge, and avoids the blow.

Round two: 

Harvey acts first again, as his pistol is readied.
Harvey’s action:
Harvey fires off three shots in rapid succession. The range is point-blank, so Harvey gains a bonus die on each shot, 
but this is negated by the penalty die on each shot for firing multiple shots in one round from a handgun (see Handguns,  
Multiple Shots page 113).

Three dice rolls are made in turn, one for each of Harvey’s shots (each requiring a Regular level of success): 04, 27 and 
92. Two of the shots miss, but the first is an Extreme success. The Extreme success is an impale, so the damage is 1D10 + 
10. The thing collapses.
Monster’s action:
It is dead or dying and can take no action.

Round three: 

Before Harvey can check if the creature is dead, he sees two more lurking in the shadows at the far side of the room.
Harvey’s action:
Harvey lifts his gun to fire again. Picking his target with care, he spends a whole round aiming,