  an  enormous 
monster  with  clawed  append-
ages  and  a  single  long  blood-red 
tentacle  in  place  of  a  face.  This 
tentacle  stretches  forward  when  the 
Thing howls at the moon. The Haunter 
of  the  Dark  is  black  and  winged,  with  a 
tri-lobed red eye, and cannot withstand light. 
The  Bloated Woman  is  a  mammoth  woman  whose 
body  convulses  with  numerous  tentacles.  The  Beast  takes 
the form of Egypt’s Sphinx, with its face is filled with stars. 
There is some suggestion that the Black Man of European 
witch ceremonies is also a form of Nyarlathotep.

Cult
Nyarlathotep  is  typically  worshiped  though  one  of  his 
forms,  or  "masks".  There  are  numerous  such  cults,  spread 
across the entire globe. 

The  Brotherhood  of  the  Black  Pharaoh  is  centered  in 
Cairo  and  has  a  powerful  branch  in  London.  The  Cult  of 
the Bloody Tongue is known in Kenya and New York. The 
Starry  Wisdom  Cult  of  Providence  worships  the  Haunter 
of the Dark, as does the Cult of the Sand Bat in Australia. 
Other known cults include Shanghai’s Order of the Bloated 
Woman and the global Brotherhood of the Beast.

In  addition,  those  worshiping  the  gods  often  do  so  in 
hope  of  gathering  Nyarlathotep’s  favor.  Rewards  to  loyal 
slaves usually come through the Crawling Chaos, as many 

of  the  other  Gods  are  too  mindless  to  care.  Nyarlathotep 
may  grant  worshipers  knowledge  of  a  spell,  impart  some 
destructive fact or divisive religious belief or grant a servitor 
monster  as  an  assistant.  Nyarlathotep’s  gifts  always  seem 
to  provoke  turmoil  among  humanity  and  are  particularly 
likely to bring suffering and terror to a gift’s recipient.

Nyarlathotep  has  special  servants,  including  the  shan-
taks and hunting horrors. He may gift any type of creature 
to a worshiper if he deems it good. Such a bequest involves 
at least the permanent donation of POW or other character-
istic to Nyarlathotep and other gods.

Other Characteristics
Nyarlathotep enacts the will of the Azathoth and other gods 
and is accurately referred to as their soul. He always attempts 
to  bring  madness  to  humanity  and  several  prophecies,  in-
cluding the stories The Crawling Chaos, Nyarlathotep, and the 
poem  The  Fungi  from Yuggoth,  seem  to  state  that  someday 
Nyarlathotep himself will destroy humanity and possibly the 
entire  planet.  Nyarlathotep  is  always  a  mocking  figure, 
evidently contemptuous of his masters.

All  invocations  to  Azathoth  and  many 
other gods include Nyarlathotep’s name, 
possibly  recognizing  him  as  their 
messenger. He is known and feared 
by all Mythos species, and he occa-
sionally requires things of them.

In human form Nyarlathotep 
may  try  to  corrupt  or  trick  his 
foes  by  appearing  as  a  friend, 
and  is  generally  reluctant  to 
reveal  his  supernatural  powers 
unless  pressed.  Nyarlathotep 
usually  reacts  to  challenges  by 
summoning beings to carry off or 

otherwise dispose of foes.

Nyarlathotep  can 

summon  a 
member  of  any 