 not  seem  to  communicate  with  humans  in  any 
fashion and must be summoned to be dealt with.

SIZ 700 

CTHUGHA, The Living Flame
STR 400 
CON 600 
POW 210  HP 130
Damage Bonus: +13D6
Build: 14
Magic Points: 42
Move: 0 (aerial drift)

DEX 105 

INT 105

ATTACKS 
Attacks per round: 3 
Fighting  attacks:  Each  round,  Cthugha  can  form  pseudopods 
from its formless mass with which to flail or squeeze individual 
targets.

Automatic Scorch: Summoned, Cthugha brings 1D100 x10 flame 
vampires  with  it,  which  immediately  begin  to  set  the  area 
alight. Cthugha itself floats above, scorching and burning the 
entire site. Humans in the area lose hit points to the heat, start-
ing in the round after Cthugha comes. Each round the players 
must attempt to roll CON. Upon failure, the investigator loses 
1 hit point per round until death. The only way to survive is 
to  flee  the  area—a  roughly  circular  area  with  a  diameter  of 
2D10 x 20 yards. Cthugha does not depart until that area has 
been thoroughly blasted and burned, unless first dismissed by 
means of a spell.

314 

Call of Cthulhubut  someday  the  city  will  rise  and  he  will  wake, 
freed to raven and slay across the world. 
In  the  city  are  also  entombed  other 
members of Cthulhu’s race. Cthulhu is 
evidently  the  high  priest  and  ruler  of 
them all, and is by far the most potent.

Cult
Cthulhu’s cult is the most widespread 
and  popular  cult  of  the  earthly  Great 
Old  Ones.  This  cult  believes  that 
Cthulhu  plunged  from  the  stars  with 
his kin and built a great prehistoric city 
at R’lyeh, ruling the world. When the stars 
changed, their continent sank beneath the 
sea, and the city and its inhabitants fell into 
a death-sleep where they await their reawakening 
by  members  of  Cthulhu’s  cult.  When  R’lyeh  rises  above 
the  waves,  members  of  the  cult  will  be  required  to  come 
to  it  and  open  the  vast  black  door  behind  which  Cthulhu 
dreams, whereupon he will awaken and rise to revel across 
the world in wild abandon with the faithful.

Entire tribes are recorded as worshiping Cthulhu. Remote 
Inuits  are  mentioned.  So  are  degenerate  Louisiana  swamp-
folk. He seems to be most worshiped among sea-folk, or be-
ings that live near the sea. He is served by the beings known as 
the deep ones as well as by the octopoid things known as the 
star-spawn  of  Cthulhu.  Cthulhu’s  cult  is  prehistoric  and  of 
many variants, and Cthulhu himself has many names, most 
of which can be traced back to their original form. Thus two 
of his names are Tulu and Thu Thu.

Other Characteristics

Great Cthulhu

Flame Burst: Cthugha may belch forth fire instead of 
using pseudopods. A flame bust has a range 
of  150  yards  and  blankets  the  target 
site  with  fire,  incinerating  an  area  20 
yards  across.  Investigators  within  the 
area  must  attempt  an  Extreme  CON 
roll  (rolling  equal  to  or  below  one-fifth