 humans of the late twentieth century, but in 
the science of biology they far excelled.

The serpent people of Yoth were able to 
manipulate life forms as they desired. It is  
believed that both ghasts and the voormis are 
their creations, each bred to carry out certain 
tasks for their ophidian masters. Not only could 
the serpent people adjust the genetic structure 
of a creature in its prenatal state, so it changed 
as it grew, but they also developed serums which 
could evoke the most remarkable transformations 
in fully grown specimens. Cloning and accelerated 
growth were also well within the serpent  
people’s ability.

Another particular area of serpent people 

interest was the creation of various poisons and 
toxins. Some killed, while others simply induced 
sleep. Some acted quickly, while others might 
take a century to take full effect. Some were 
blatantly obvious—causing fear—while others were 
incredibly subtle. No other race has come close 
to approaching the level of knowledge of poisons 
enjoyed by the serpent people.

The later Hyperborean civilization of the  
serpent people, which preserved many of the 
secrets of Yoth, fell almost a million years ago 
and since then the technology of the serpent 
people has almost utterly disappeared. Some 
modern serpent people strive to regain their lost 
technology, but they are few.

274 

Star Stone of Mnar

Star Stones of Mnar

Used by: Anyone
Usually  found  in  the  same  location  as  the  supposed 
tombs  of  ancient  evil  beings.  Best  described  as 
green-colored  disk-shaped  (sometimes  star-shaped) 
rocks on which is carved an Elder Sign (page 255).

The stones are alleged to come from the fabled land 
of Mnar in prehistory, although some occult scholars 
suggest that this is a mere tale and that the stones are 
extraterrestrial  in  origin  and  were  perhaps  fashioned 
by the Elder Gods themselves. Either way, a star stone is 
believed to ward the bearer against the minions of the 
Great Old Ones, granting safe passage in dark places. 
Note that the protection only extends to the minions 
of Great Old Ones, not the Great Old Ones themselves!
Wise  folk  state  that  the  stones  are  blighted  and 
that  anyone  removing  a  star  stone  from  its  proper 
place will suffer an elder curse. Presumably the Elder 
Gods do not wish the stones to be removed from the 
prison-tombs of the Great Old Ones, as doing so might 
weaken the magicks in force and allow the imprisoned 
god to break free.

Stasis Cube 

Used by: Yithians
These devices appear in a number of different shapes 
and  sizes,  however  they  all  have  a  single  purpose:  to 
slow the flow of time. Older cubes give ratios of 1-sec-
ond internal time per thousand years external time, but 
in the future the Yithians will advance this to 1-second 
internal time per million years external time. 

The smallest stasis cubes were used to store books 
in Pnakotus. Larger stasis cubes have been used to fling 
Yithians  into  the  future.  Almost  all  stasis  cubes  are 
simple in design, made from metal or plastic with no 
sign of external circuitry.

Call of CthulhuPnakotus
A million years ago the Great 
Race constructed the city of 
Pnakotus somewhere in the 
Australian desert. Scholars 
suggest that its name  
translates as ‘city of  
archives’ and it is believed 
to be a mighty repository of 
knowledge.

Pushing  a  button  or  opening  up  the  stasis  cube  deacti-
vates  most  stasis  cubes,  but  some  have  complicated  panels 
allowing  the  programming  of  set  periods  of  stasis.  These 
more complicated devices would likely be incomprehensible 
to someone who did not understand Y