 This 
finds Harvey 10 years older (now aged 52) and so the 
aging effects are applied. A dice roll of 98 grants Harvey 
1D10 improvement to his EDU, adding 9 points for an 
EDU  of  93.  The  player  then  reduces  Harvey’s  CON 
and APP by 5 points each. Harvey is still a handsome 
fellow (APP 75). His hit points are decreased by 1 to 14 
as a result of his drop in Constitution. His MOV drops 
from 6 to 5, he’s not as fast as he used to be, but all in 
all, Harvey is aging pretty well!

98 

Call of CthulhuOptional Rules

Spending Luck
After the player has made a skill roll (using a skill or charac-
teristic),  Luck  points  may  be  spent  to  alter  the  result.  The 
player can use Luck points to alter a roll on a 1-for-1 basis. 
The  points  spent  are  deducted  from  the  investigator’s  Luck 
score, which will reduce the chance of passing a future Luck 
roll. 

Luck points may not be spent on Luck rolls, damage rolls, 
Sanity rolls, or rolls to determine the amount of Sanity points 
lost. A player may spend any amount of Luck points (up to 
their current Luck value) on a roll. A player may only spend 
Luck to alter one of their own dice rolls.

When  a  skill  roll  is  failed,  the  player  has  the  option  to 
push the roll OR spend luck; Luck points may not be spent to 
alter the result of a pushed roll.

Criticals, fumbles, and firearm malfunctions always apply, 

and cannot be bought off with Luck points. 

Also, no skill improvement check is earned if Luck points 

were used to alter the dice roll.

In play, an investigator’s Luck will fall through spends and 

rise through recovery (see below).

Recovering Luck points
After each session of play, each player may make an improve-
ment check for their Luck. This is rolled in the same way as 
for skill improvement. The player rolls 1D100 and if the roll is 
above their present Luck score they add 1D10 points to their 
Luck score. If the roll is equal to or less than the investigator’s 
present Luck score, no points are recovered.

Note: An investigator’s Luck score will vary throughout 
play, but may not exceed 99. The Luck starting value is not 
used again in the game. There are no resets and the starting 
value can be exceeded in play.

The Keeper rolls an Extreme success for a Dark Young 
to  trample  Harvey  into  the  dust.  Harvey  fails  to 
dodge with a roll of 73, far above his Dodge skill of 27. 
This  is  life  or  death,  and  so  Harvey’s  player  spends 
46 of Harvey’s Luck points to convert the Dodge roll 
to  an  Extreme  success.  Harvey  avoids  death  by  a 
hairsbreadth!

At the start of the following session (Harvey hav-
ing somehow survived to fight another day), Harvey’s 
player makes a check for Luck recovery. Harvey’s Luck 
is now down to 8 points. The player rolls 37 and so 
adds 1D10 to Harvey’s Luck, increasing it to 14. Let’s 
hope Harvey doesn’t have to rely on his luck today.

99 

chapter 5: game systemespite  their  best  efforts  to  avoid  bloodshed, 
sometimes  investigators  are  faced  with  situa-
tions where the outcome can only be decided 
by the fist or gun.
Combat  encompasses  a  range  of  skills  and 
goals; sometimes an investigator may wish to merely subdue 
an  opponent  without  causing  undue  harm,  while  at  other 
times the goal may be to kill, or simply to flee.

Combat has its own rules that focus on the action and 
help to determine