 Stealth roll. A failed 
roll will leave an investigator exposed and possibly a target. 
Any investigator trying to flee the area will not be a target 
for Eugene. 

Any investigators who are caught out in the open trying 
to make a full-frontal assault on Eugene leave him no choice: 
he will try to shoot them dead. However, given he is badly 
injured after being shot by the police two nights ago, all his 
combat rolls are made with a penalty die (see page 91).

If the investigators manage to advance far enough, or if 
he runs out of ammunition, Eugene will try to flee rather 
than stand and fight. A chase may ensue, although Eugene’s 
rolls should be at a penalty due to his injuries (see Chapter 
7:  Chases).  If  he  escapes,  the  Keeper  should  decide  when 
he  will  reappear.  Potentially,  the  investigators  could  en-
counter him again at any point, either following his tracks 
and catching him exhausted after a successful Track roll, or 
perhaps  during  a  later  event  as  he  makes  his  way  towards 
the hideout.

If caught or cornered at gunpoint, Eugene will surren-
der,  demanding  that  the  posse  take  him  back  to  the  town 
to  get  medical  attention.  Eugene  is  suffering  from  a  fever, 
wounded from the shootout (blasted by a police shotgun), 
and  claims  he’s  delirious—he  states  he  took  a  pot  shot  at 
someone  he  saw  last  night  and  he  swears  he  hit,  but  the 
figure just walked off! 

  Eugene  will  say  anything  to  pin  the  kidnapping  (and 
any other crimes he thinks he’ll be blamed for) on Harris, 
claiming  he  was  bullied  into  it.  If  questioned  about  Jane 
Strong, he will say that she was looked after and was healthy 
when he last saw her before the shoot-out. He will provide 
directions to the hideout cabin in which she is held.

The  investigators  have  the  option  to  follow  Eugene’s 

directions or pick up Harris’ tracks again.

Day 2: The Second Night
The investigators have travelled far into the heart of the for-
est now and are now much closer to where Gla'aki dwells, its 
inhuman thoughts drifting on the winds of dream. 

All  investigators  will  experience  Gla'aki’s  Dream  Call 
on  this  night  (regardless  of  whether  they  have  previously 
experienced it). Each investigator randomly selects a Dream 
Call Handout (see page 363), excluding “A Restless Night” 
from this selection. The Keeper should call for Sanity rolls 
for the relevant dreams (applying the SAN loss as noted on 
each handout). 

Ask  those  on  guard  duty  to  make  an  Extreme  Spot 
Hidden roll (requiring the player to roll equal to or below 
one-fifth of their skill). If the roll is failed, the investigator 
concerned gets the impression of being watched. Those who 
succeed notice something moving in the darkness. 

The  watcher  in  the  dark  is  one  of  Gla'aki’s  undead 
servants  (Louis—one  of  Turner’s  gang,  see  Non-Player 
Characters  on  page  361),  patrolling  the  woods  after  the 
other  servants  have  been  alerted  to  the  fact  that  there  are 

Chasing the Kidnapper 
Through the Forest
The series of locations that make up this chase will all 
be forest-based; for example:

G  Steep muddy slope, requiring a Climb roll.
G  Brook, requiring a Jump roll.
G  An  area  thick  with  young  trees,  requiring  a 

DEX roll to weave rapidly through.

If