, 
if any).

If the attacker achieves an Extreme level of success with 
a  penetrating  weapon  (such  as  a  blade  or  bullet)  then  an 
impale  has  been  inflicted.  This  means  that  the  weapon  or 
bullet chanced to strike a vital area, driving deeply through 
arteries  or  slashing  crucial  tendons  or  muscles.  Apply  the 
increased  damage  as  for  an  Extreme  success  with  a  blunt 
weapon (maximum damage plus maximum damage bonus) 
and add a damage roll for the weapon.

103 

chapter 6: combatA  character  with  1D4  damage  bonus  achieves  an 
Extreme  level  of  success  when  attacking  with  a 
switchblade.  The  player  rolls  1D4  for  the  weapon’s 
damage, and adds the maximum damage the weapon 
can inflict (4) together with their maximum damage 
bonus (4). This results in a total of 1D4+8, (a range of 
9 to 12 points of damage).

Weapons  that  can  impale  are  indicated  on  the  Table 

XVII: Weapons (pages 401-405).

Using Weapons in a Fight
Anything that can be picked up and used to hit or stab can be 
considered a melee weapon. If it is the kind of weapon that 
anyone could just pick up and use (a chair leg, kitchen knife, 
etc.), then use the Fighting (Brawl) skill. Such weapons be-
long to the basic weapons category and include simple clubs 
and knives. If the weapon is more cumbersome or complex 
and  does  not  conform  to  the  basic  weapons  category,  a 
weapon  specialization  skill  should  be  used. Weapons  with 
similar  characteristics  and  function  are  grouped  together 
for the purpose of weapon skill specializations. 

Consult Table XVII: Weapons (pages 401-405) for de-
tails  of  the  weapon  groups  and  specific  weapons,  together 
with the damage they inflict.

Old  Man  Birch  has  the  choice  of  picking  up  a  knife 
or a sword. With the knife, he would use his Fighting 
(Brawl) skill of 40%. A sword is trickier to use and has 
its own skill, which is not part of the Fighting (Brawl) 
skill.  Old  Man  Birch  doesn’t  have  any  skill  with  a 
sword, so would have to use it at the base skill value: 
Fighting (Sword) 20%.

Improvised Weapons
All  sorts  of  items  can  be  used  to  inflict  physical  harm: 
snooker cues, scissors, bottles, rocks and so on. Even a gram-
ophone player could be smashed over the back of someone’s 
head for a nasty injury. 

The  Keeper  should  determine  the  damage  done  by  an 
improvised  weapon  by  using  a  comparable  item  on  Table 
XVII: Weapons (pages 401-405). If the improvised weapon 
is similar to a basic melee weapon, such as a knife or club, it 
may be used with the Fighting (Brawl) skill. If it is not, the 
Keeper should decide on which Fighting skill specialization 
is appropriate.

Everyone  is  strongly  encouraged  to  make  use  of  the 
environment in a fight. Doing so will add a unique feel to 
each  fight  and  will  make  the  setting  come  to  life.  If  every 
fight uses the same old punches, kicks, and regular weapons, 
they  may  feel  repetitive.  Picture  the  scene  and  grab  what 
comes to mind. If the fight takes place in a bar, you should 

No Pushing 
Combat Rolls
There is no option to 
push combat rolls (either 
Fighting or Firearms). Skill 
rolls are