10+4; base ranges 50 yards. 
May impale.

Taser  (Contact  or  Dart):  Affects  only  targets  up  to  Build 
2,  stunned  targets  are  incapacitated  for  1D6  rounds  (or  as 
determined by the Keeper). 

406 

Call of CthulhuSummary of   
Game System 
Rules

Making Skill Rolls:

T  State a goal before rolling any dice. 
T  Determine the difficulty level for the roll.
T  Pushing the roll: can the player justify it? Keeper may 

foreshadow consequence of failure.
T  Check skills when used successfully.

Critical success: 01.

Fumble: 100 is always a fumble. If the dice roll required for 
success is below 50, a fumble occurs if 96—100 is rolled.

Regular  Difficulty  Level:  Opposing  skill/characteristic  is 
below 50, or the task is a standard one. The player needs to roll 
equal to or below his or her full skill or characteristic to succeed.

Hard Difficulty Level: Opposing skill/characteristic is equal 
to  or  above  50,  or  the  task  is  exceptionally  difficult.  The 
player needs to roll equal to or below half his or her skill or 
characteristic to succeed.

Extreme  Difficulty  Level:  Opposing  skill/characteristic  is 
equal to or above 90, or this task is on the borders of human 
capability. The player needs to roll equal to or below a fifth of 
his or her skill or characteristic to succeed.

Opposed Rolls
Use  when  two  players  are  opposing  one  another.  Both  roll 
against  agreed  skill  or  characteristic.  The  one  with  the  best 
level of success wins:

A Critical success beats an Extreme success.

An Extreme success beats a Hard success.

A Hard success beats a Regular success.

A Regular success beats a Failure or Fumble.

In the case of a tie, the side with the higher skill (or character-
istic) wins. If still tied either an impasse has been reached or 
both sides should re-roll.

Opposed rolls cannot be pushed.

Bonus Dice and Penalty Dice
For  each  bonus  die:  roll  an  additional  tens  percentile  die 
alongside the usual pair of percentile dice when making a skill 
roll (rolling 3 separate dice: one units die and two tens dice). 
Use the tens dice that yields the better (lower) result. 
For  each  penalty  die:  roll  an  additional  tens  percentage  die 
alongside the usual pair of percentage dice (rolling 3 separate 
dice: one units die and two tens dice). Use the tens dice that 
yields the worse (higher) result. 

Human Limits and Skill Rolls
The upper limit of what can be opposed is 100 + the investi-
gator’s skill or characteristic.

Starting with the lowest, deduct each investigator’s char-
acteristic  value  in  turn  from  the  opposition’s  characteristic. 
Continue  doing  this  until  the  opponent’s  characteristic  has 
been reduced to a value that can be challenged by an inves-
tigator. Investigators whose characteristics were not used to 
reduce the opposing factor may now make a skill roll, with 
an  Extreme,  Hard  or  Regular  difficulty  level,  as  determined 
by the value of the opposing characteristic. The opposition 
cannot be reduced to zero or lower by this method; a skill roll 
is always required.

Combined Skill Rolls
Used  when  a  situation  allows  or  demands  the  use  of  more 
than one skill. 

Only one dice roll is made; the result is then compared 
with each of the skills named. The Keeper will specify whether 
a success is required for both skills, or if only one of the skills 
need be successful.

Investigator Development 

Phase

T  Roll  1D100  for  each  skill  checked.  If  the  result  is 
higher than the skill or over 95