him with a fresh human corpse (problem 4). 

Harvey’s problems are piling up and the clock is 

ticking.

Magic
Magic  is  part  of  the  Cthulhu  Mythos  and  man  can  never 
fully comprehend it. Each spell has its own description listed 
in Chapter 12: Grimoire; however, spells are in the Keeper’s 
domain and therefore mutable. You are free to change any 
aspect  of  a  spell  as  you  wish.  Consistency  is  antithetical 
to  the  horror  genre—Lovecraft  himself  never  constrained 
himself with it, so neither should you. Once a spell or mon-
ster is established in a given story, you will probably want 
to keep it largely unchanged for the duration of that story, 
but this does not mean that in another story with different 
investigators the same monster or spell cannot manifest in a 
quite different way. 

The spell Wave of Oblivion (page 265) requires a body 
of  salt  water  to  be  present  for  the  spell  to  work  and 
describes  its  effect  as  a  mighty  ocean  wave  crashing 
down  upon  the  target.  There’s  no  reason  why  this 
couldn’t instead be a wave of invisible force or a wind 
so strong it tears flesh from the bone.

211 

chapter 10: playing the gameAs well as the danger associated with the first casting of a 
spell, you are encouraged to incorporate your own ideas for 
hazards for the spells, perhaps to suit your scenario. 

Tomes
You should note that the rules state that it is up to you when 
to call for rolls, and this applies equally to reading tomes and 
using magic. If reading the tome is essential to the progres-
sion of your plot, then beware of introducing a dice roll and 
thus a risk of failure.

Using the Optional Rule: Spontaneous 
Use of the Cthulhu Mythos Skill
Clearly, use of this option must be handled with care, as it 
can potentially place disproportionate power in the hands of 
a player. When an investigator has only 2% Cthulhu Mythos 
skill,  the  chances  of  successfully  using  spontaneous  magic 
are very low. You may be tempted by this low probability of 
success to allow an investigator a chance to achieve a major 
goal, such as raising the dead through spontaneous use of 
the Cthulhu Mythos skill. This may become an issue when 
that same investigator has 50% Cthulhu Mythos skill in the 
future; suddenly what was a rare chance becomes a fifty-fifty 
chance and the investigator is casually raising the dead on a 
daily basis. Only you can decide what is appropriate to your 
game, so take care not to allow overly generous goals simply 
because  the  present  chance  of  success  is  very  low.  Opting 
to  downscale  an  investigator’s  abilities  later  will  give  the 
players a sense of being penalized and should be avoided by 
using some forethought.

When setting goals for the use of Cthulhu Mythos skill, 
refer  to  a  comparable  spell  for  guidance  on  costs  and  re-
quirements. Tell the player how many magic points it will 
cost  when  the  goal  is  agreed,  or  perhaps  state  a  die  type 
(e.g. 1D8) that will be rolled to determine the magic point 
cost.  Each  spontaneous  use  of  Cthulhu  Mythos  should  be 
dangerous and unique; losing the pushed roll can have dire 
consequences (see The Consequences of Failing a Pushed 
Casting Roll, page 178).

You  may  decide  to  be  more  generous  in  the  setting  of 
goals for the use of the spontaneous Cthulhu Mythos skill 
if the goal is associated with the investigator’s profession. In 
this way a