  hybrid-bas-
tard, fostered upon a wealthy family whose own babe was 
devoured in darkness. His transformation from human to 
fully-fledged ghoul has been slow and long. His long-estab-
lished  taste  for  fresh  human  flesh,  particularly  that  of  the 
young,  is  slowly  degenerating  into  a  taste  for  rotten  carri-
on—a sure sign he will (within a decade or so) pass below 
into the darkness. Until then he will serve as he has served 
in the past, as a go-between between the world above and 
the  shadows  below:  a  procurer  of  flesh  and  treasures,  and 
a dealer in the spoils of the dead to humankind, who are so 
easily bought-off with baubles and trash.

Hector  &  Carla:  Despite  his  power,  Wick  prefers  any 
dirty work done at a remove by underlings bound to him 
by tainted blood, only doing his own killing when far from 
the  public  eye  or  possible  discovery.  The  profiles  for  two 
of his minions, Hector and Carla Fademan, a pair of local 
siblings whose ghoul-taint is somewhat further along than 
Wick’s own (and who also lack their master’s considerable 
intelligence and charm), are provided in the NPC section. 
They serve as workers, kidnappers, thieves, and murderers 
as required. 

If Wick believes the investigators are worthy of his atten-
tion, he will have Hector and Carla follow and observe them 
to learn the direction of their enquiries, or if he suspects the 
investigators now have the papers he may send Hector and 
Carla to retrieve them.

Beyond this Scenario: Depending on the investigators’ 
personal dealings with Wick, he can make for a very useful 
contact in the future and a potential source of both infor-
mation  and  employment,  albeit  a  hugely  dangerous  and 
corrupting one.

If chosen as the Culprit: If Wick is the Keeper’s chosen 
culprit then his desire for the Witch Trial Papers was great 
enough for him to simply do away with the pretense of the 
bidding war and have them taken directly from the forger 
Cecil Hunter in the night by his less-than-human servants 
(which may have had more than a small part in Hunter’s fi-
nal breakdown). If he feels the investigators suspect him, he 
will use Hector and Carla to throw the investigators off the 
scent, perhaps using them to draw attention to a different 
suspect,  or  he  will  send  his  minions  to  attack  and  kill  the 
meddlesome investigators. He knows full well the dangers of 
the horror Leiter and Hunter have inadvertently all but set 
loose and will be in preparations for a ritual to appease and 
bind the entity to his will—a ritual destined to be performed 
either  in  the  bowels  of  his  shop  or  perhaps  in  the  ruined 
Hobbhouse Manse if the Keeper prefers. The ritual will re-
quire some victims to feed the entity’s desire for destruction 

and suitable candidates will likely include anyone with ties 
to  the  affair,  be  they  Lucy  Stone,  a  luckless  interloper  like 
Anthony Flinders or the investigators themselves. 

Oaks and Shaunassy, the Atlantic 
City Hoods
These two are cut from the same cloth—broad, solid, and 
grim, with ill-fitting grey suits and wide-brimmed fedoras 
pulled low to shade their features. One is older and talks, the 
other is younger and remains silent; aside from this there is 
little between them. They are, in the parlance of the rackets, 
"yellowjackets, not torpedoes," which is to say leg-breakers 
collec-
and  debt 
tors—not  assassins, 
they  are  not 
but 
above 
if 
killing 
threatened  or  or-
dered to do so. They 
are 