, but players 
now have the option to push the roll.

An entry in the scenario "Tatters of the King" reads, “If 
the interview is handled well and the interviewer can 
either provide some proof of their professional interest 
in the university and in the expedition, or they succeed 
in a Fast Talk roll (–10 percentiles if they are operating 
through an interpreter), Bacci is very helpful.” 

Rather than adjusting the skill roll by 10 percen-
tiles, the Keeper should increase the level of difficulty 
from Regular to Hard if the investigators are operating 
through an interpreter. 

Social Interaction
Where calls for Fast Talk, Bargain, or Persuade are called for, 
consider if Intimidate or Charm might also be options. This is 
often obvious from the context, but be prepared to be flexible 
if your players use one of the new skills in a way you were 
not expecting.

Using the example above, one of the players seeks to 
Intimidate Bacci in his office, drawing a gun and yell-
ing demands at him in Italian. The Keeper refers to 
Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, and Persuade Skills: 
Difficulty Levels (see page 93). No skill values are list-
ed for Bacci; he’s an academic and the Keeper decides 
that Bacci would not possess Intimidate or Psychology 
skill in excess of 50%, and so sets the difficulty level to 
Regular. Bacci is not inclined to divulge details of the 
expedition  to  just  anyone,  but  neither  is  he  strongly 
motivated to keep it secret. The investigator is waving 
a gun in Bacci’s face, so the difficulty level should be 
made easier. The Keeper rules that the player will suc-
ceed unless the Intimidate roll is fumbled. The player 
fumbles their Intimidate roll. Bacci calls for help and 
attempts to grab the investigator’s gun. A scuffle has 
broken out and the Keeper switches to combat rounds.

Characteristic Rolls
Where characteristic rolls are called for you, should use the 
following guide.

G  Characteristic x 1 (e.g. POW x 1, STR x 1): use Ex-
treme difficulty level (one-fifth of characteristic).
G  Characteristic x 2 or x 3 (e.g. POW x 2, STR x 3): use 

Hard difficulty level (half of characteristic).

G  Characteristic x 4 or x 5 or x 6 (e.g. POW x 4, STR x 
5): use Regular difficulty level (full characteristic).
G  Characteristic x 7 or x 8 (e.g. POW x 7, STR x 8): use 
Regular  difficulty  level  (full  characteristic)  with  one 
bonus die.

Opposed Rolls and the Resistance 
Table
7th Edition does not use the Resistance Table from previous 
editions.  Instead,  opposed  rolls  are  made.  Each  opposing 
party  makes  a  roll  under  the  required  skill  or  characteristic, 
aiming to roll under their own value while achieving a higher 
degree of success than the opposing value.

For 6th Edition and earlier, for any mention of a Resistance 
roll  or  the  Resistance  Table,  use  an  opposed  roll  instead. 
Thus, making a Resistance Table roll against STR 16 is now 
opposing a STR of 80. Opposing a sorcerer's POW 18 on the 
Resistance Table is now an opposed roll against POW 90.

Pushing Skill Rolls
This  will  not  be  mentioned  in  publications  that  pre-date 
7th Edition. Often a scenario may include a consequence of 
failing a skill roll. The Keeper should consider whether such a 
complication should occur immediately or be reserved as the 
consequence of failing a pushed roll. 

Poison Potency
In  earlier  versions  of  Call  of  Cthulhu,  each  poison  had  a 
Potency  (POT)  value.  The  higher  the  POT  value,  the  more 
deadly