Cost: 4 magic points

Alternative names: For Contact spells, use words like: Union, 
Commune, Exchange, Commerce, Covenant, Pact, Concord, etc. 
For example, The Red Pact, Covenant of the Deep, and so forth. 

Contact Deity Spells
Cost: 5 POW; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: five to ten (1D6 + 4) rounds

Contact Deity spells are unused except by the insane priests 
of these deities, or by great independent sorcerers who hope 
to strike deals and win over some small fraction of the dei-
ty’s powers. The deity sought for Contact can be any one of 
the Gods or Great Old Ones.

For each such spell, the caster must sacrifice 5 POW. The 
chance of successfully contacting the deity is equal to half 
the caster’s (reduced) POW. If the roll succeeds, the deity or 
some aspect of it will contact the caster in a semi-friendly 
manner after a few game hours or days. The deity is unlikely 
to  give  non-worshipers  anything  of  value.  If  the  deity  is 
bored or offended the god will likely squash the caster, or 
drive him or her insane, and so get some inhuman pleasure 
from the situation.

Each version of the spell tends to reflect the deity concerned.

Contact  Deity:  Chaugnar  Faugn:  Opens  communication 
with  Chaugnar  Faugn. With  a  success,  the  deity  sends  the 
caster visions or nightmares that inform the dreamer of the 
god’s desires, or lets him or her know if a petition to the god 
is to be favorably answered or rejected.

Contact  Deity:  Cthulhu:  Opens  communication  with 
Cthulhu.  Cthulhu  typically  responds  at  night,  during  the 
caster’s dreams. By dreams and nightmares he informs his 
followers of his desires.

Contact  Deity:  Eihort:  Resembles  other  Contact  Deity 
spells,  but  the  caster  sacrifices  1  magic  point  in  casting  it. 
The god automatically appears in dream form if the caster 
is distant and in person if within a few hundred yards. In 
imparting this spell into the caster’s brain, Eihort extracts 5 
POW in compensation.

Contact  Deity:  Nodens:  Opens  communication  with 
Nodens. The Contact spell for Nodens can be cast only from 
a remote, unpeopled place such as the edge of a sea-cliff. If, 
later, Nodens contacts the caster, it will be when he or she is 
alone and in a similar inaccessible place.

Contact Deity: Nyarlathotep: Opens communication with 
Nyarlathotep. This spell can be cast from anywhere, as befits 
this omnipresent god; however, Nyarlathotep appears only 
at meetings of worshipers or when new priests of the Gods 
are anointed.

Contact  Deity:  Tsathoggua:  Opens  communication  with 
Tsathoggua. Tsathoggua may appear in spirit form as a hazy 
and translucent projection of his real self, to which normal 
Sanity  losses  apply.  He  usually  visits  only  if  the  caster  is 
alone. He speaks audibly to the caster.

Contact  Deity:  Y’golonac:  Opens  communication  with 
Y’golonac. This god responds by attempting to convert the 
caster to its worship. If the deity feels that the caster would 
be an unsuitable priest, it will psychically attack him or her 
and try to eat the soul and mind. If the caster might be suit-

252 

Call of Cthulhuable, Y’golonac  tries  to  possess  a  friend,  who  (controlled) 
approaches the caster to tempt him or her into service.

Create Zombie

Cost: 16 magic points; 1D