 In North America, usually 
such  a  snake  would  be  an  enormous  tom  rattler,  at  least 
5-6 feet long. The snake appears so swiftly that the victim 
is  always  startled  and  automatically  hit  unless  he  or  she 
can react swiftly (roll Dodge skill). On subsequent rounds, 
successful Dodge use is required to avoid being bitten by the 
snake,  which  will  pursue  and  continue  to  attack  unless  it 
is killed. No antivenin can save someone bitten by a sacred 
snake of Yig—bitten, he or she always dies after a few min-
utes of agony.

SIZ 100 

CON 600 

YIG, Father of Serpents
STR 150 
POW 140  HP 70
Damage Bonus: +2D6
Build: 3
Magic Points: 28
Move: 10

DEX 90 

INT 100

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Yig has the usual range of unarmed attacks open 

to humanoids.

Grasp (mnvr): In hand-to-hand combat, the hand of Yig grasps, 

not punches, doing crushing damage to an arm or leg.

Bite: In the next combat round, Yig draws the victim to him (op-

posed STR roll to resist) and bites.
Fighting 90% (45/18), damage bonus 
Grasp (mnvr), crushing damage 2D6 
Bite  (after  Grasp)  95%  (47/19),  damage  1D8  +  instant  death  if 

armor is penetrated

Armor: 6-point scales. A critical hit ignores armor. Hand-to-hand 
attacks do normal damage and Yig’s armor protects normally, 
however  any  object  penetrating  Yig’s  scaly  armor  takes  3D6 
points of damage from the disintegrating effects of Yig’s ven-
omous blood.

Spells:  Has  all  the  usual  Summon/Bind  and  Contact  spells,  and  is 
more willing than most deities to impart them; he is particularly 
expert with chthonians; Keepers should add other spells as desired.
Sanity Loss: 0/1D8 Sanity points to see Yig.

Yig

330 

Call of CthulhuYog-Sothoth
Great globes of light massing towards the opening…the 
breaking apart of the nearest globes, and the protoplasmic 
flesh that flowed blackly outward to join together and 
form that eldritch, hideous horror from outer space…
whose mask was a congeries of iridescent globes…who 
froths as primal slime in nuclear chaos forever beyond 
the nethermost outposts of space and time!
—August Derleth, The Lurker at the Threshold

Yog-Sothoth dwells in the interstices between 
the planes that compose the universe. There 
it  manifests  as  a  conglomeration  of  iri-
descent globes, which are always shifting, 
flowing  into  one  another,  and  breaking. 
This  conglomeration  is  large,  but  vari-
able, so that at one time it may appear 
to  be  100  yards  across  and  at  another 
time  half  a  mile  or  more.  Connections 
between  Yog-Sothoth’s  appearance  and 
sightings of so-called flying saucers are obvious.

Cult

Yog-Sothoth  is  preeminently  the  deity  of  sorcerers 
and  wizards.  He  grants  them  the  power  to  travel 
between  the  planes,  or  the  power  to  see  into  other  planes 
via a piece of magic glass or the like. Yog-Sothoth may also 
give its slaves the ability to command various monsters from 
distant worlds.

In  return  for