  Keeper  must  decide  whether  a  situation  calls  for 

sequential skill rolls or a combined skill roll.

A deranged cultist suddenly moves to draw a gun on 
Harvey.  A  successful  Spot  Hidden  roll  would  allow 
Harvey to see the cultist’s hand moving towards the 
gun, while a successful Psychology would allow him to 
anticipate the action through the cultist’s demeanor. 
The  Keeper  asks  for  a  combined  Spot  Hidden  and 
Psychology  roll  for  Harvey.  A  success  on  either  skill 
will allow Harvey to anticipate the attacker’s action, 
and perhaps give Harvey a chance to act first. 

Later, Harvey attempts to repair an electric tur-
bine. The  item  is  both  mechanical  and  electrical,  so 
the  Keeper  asks  for  a  combined  Mechanical  Repair 
and Electrical Repair roll. One roll is made and the 
result  is  compared  to  both  skills—in  this  case  both 
must be successful to achieve the task.

Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, and  
Persuade Skills: Difficulty Levels
An  investigator  may  have  a  Charm  skill  of  75%,  but  this 
does  not  mean  that  he  or  she  can  charm  anyone  and  ev-
eryone 75% of the time. The difficulty level is based on the 
opposing factor; in this case the matching social skill (either 
Charm,  Fast  Talk,  Intimidate,  or  Persuade)  or  Psychology 

93 

chapter 5: game system"I'm beginning to lose my patience with you"

Rewards of Experience: 
The Investigator  
Development Phase
When an investigator successfully uses a skill in play, the player 
should check the box beside that skill on the investigator sheet. 
This gives the investigator a chance to learn from experience. 
No tick is earned if the roll used a bonus die. In the case of an 
opposed roll, both sides may achieve a level of success, but only 
one will win, and only the winner may tick their skill.

Typically the investigator development phase occurs at 
the end of a scenario, or if playing through a campaign, at 
the conclusion of a chapter. This may be after one session of 
play or several sessions. If a story continues beyond that, the 
Keeper should look for a pause in the narrative to allow for 
an investigator development phase. 

Once an investigator development phase has been called, 
examine the investigator sheet to see which skills have been 
checked as successes. No matter how many times a skill is 
used  successfully  in  play,  only  one  check  per  skill  can  be 
made to see if the investigator improves. 

For each skill check the player rolls 1D100. 
Succeeding at something you are not good at is difficult; 
however, successfully using the skill probably means that the 
investigator  learns  from  the  experience.  Conversely,  being 
expert at something guarantees success most of the time, yet 
that high skill means the investigator is unlikely to learn fur-
ther. It gets progressively harder to add percentiles to a skill.
If  the  player  rolls  higher  than  the  current  skill  number, 
or the result is over 95, then the investigator improves in that 

skill: roll 1D10 and immediately add the result to the current 
skill points. Skills may rise above 100% by this method.

If the player rolls equal to or less than the investigator’s 
skill level, then the investigator hasn’t learned from the ex-
perience and the skill amount does not change. 

Repeat the procedure for all the skills that been checked, 
then erase all skill checks on the investigator sheet. Skills can 
be checked again during the next game session as they are 
used successfully.

Note: The Cthulhu Mythos and Credit Rating skills nev-
er receive a skill check, and no box for such a check exists 
on the investigator sheet. Not improving a skill has no other 
consequence