nap Long, The Hounds of Tindalos

The  hounds  of  Tindalos  dwell  in  the  distant  past  of  the 
earth, when normal life has not yet advanced past one-celled 
animals. They inhabit the angles of time, while other beings 
(such as mankind and all common life) descend from curves. 
This concept is hard to imagine and only seems to be used 
with  respect  to  them.  The  hounds  lust  after  something  in 
mankind and other normal life, following victims through 
time and space to get it. They are immortal.

Just  what  these  creatures  look  like  is  unknown,  since 
those who meet them seem not to survive. A hound of Tin-
dalos is unlikely to look like a hound dog and more like to 
be some form of alien terror consisting of razor-sharp teeth 
and claws, burning eyes, and pulsating blue-tinged skin.

Because  of  their  relationship  with  the  angles  of  time, 
they can materialize through any corner if it is sharp (120° 
or less). The rooms of most human houses have walls that 
meet  at  90°.  When  a  hound  manifests,  it  first  appears  as 
smoke pouring from the corner, from which the head and 
then the thing’s body emerges.

Once  a  human  (usually  an  unwitting  time  traveler) 
has become known to one of these creatures, it will pursue 
the individual relentlessly to get to him. To figure the time 
before  the  hound  of  Tindalos  reaches  its  prey,  determine 
the  number  of  years  between  the  prey’s  present  time  and 
the  time  when  spotted  by  the  creature.  Then  divide  the 
number of years by 100,000,000 to get the number of days 
travel-time for the hound.

Driven off by a target, a hound of Tindalos usually gives 
up.  Unfortunately,  such  a  creature  is  difficult  to  drive  off. 
Friends who come to a target’s aid may also become known 
by the creature, and so will be pursued and attacked.

SPECIAL POWERS

Spells: Each hound knows at least 1D8 spells.

Hound of Tindalos

Harvey Walters  has  found  a  mysterious  gem  which, 
when  meditated  upon,  allows  him  to  see  into  the 
distant past. He looks 3,000,000,000 years back, sees 
a  hound  of  Tindalos,  and  is  seen  as  well!  Though 
Harvey faints, breaking the connection, the hound of 
Tindalos is out for blood! The travel time for the crea-
ture is about 30 days. Harvey has a month to prepare 
for an unwelcome visitor.

averages 
80  
150 
85 
50  
85  
120 

HOUNDS OF TINDALOS, Scavengers of time
rolls
char. 
(3D6+6 ×5)
STR 
(3D6+20 ×5)
CON 
(3D6+6 ×5)
SIZ  
(3D6 ×5)
DEX 
(5D6 ×5)
INT 
POW 
(7D6 ×5)
HP: 23
Average Damage Bonus: +1D6
Average Build: 2
Average Magic Points: 24
Move: 6 / 20 flying

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: A hound may use its paws or its bite to attack. A 
hound of Tindalos is covered with a sort of bluish pus (Ichor). 
When  a  victim  is  struck  by  a  Fighting  attack,  a  gout  of  this 
mucoid  stuff  is  smeared  over  him  or  her