 on  the  pavement,  with  nowhere 
to  hide  behind.  Believing  it’s  only  a  matter  of  time 
before he is caught, Harvey’s decides to try to hide in 
plain  sight,  among  the  passing  crowds,  hoping  that 
the  cultists  won’t  see  him  in  the  throng  of  people. 
The Keeper approves this for a pushed roll. Harvey is 
taking a bigger risk—he’s effectively making himself 
easier to spot, and so will have no chance of escape if 
the pushed roll is failed.

Harvey’s player makes a second Stealth roll, this 
time succeeding! Harvey’s quick thinking means that 
he melts away into the crowd. The cultists have lost 
him this time!

"Run! Run for your life!"

85 

chapter 5: game systemUsing the previous example, Harvey’s player has de-
clared she would like to try to push the failed Stealth 
roll and described what Harvey is doing to justify this. 
The player then asks the Keeper for the likely conse-
quence if the pushed roll is failed. The Keeper thinks 
for a moment and says, “Well, as Harvey is trying to 
mingle with the crowd of people in the street—if the 
pushed roll is failed he could well find himself bump-
ing into one of the pursuing cultists and be caught.”

Pushed Roll: Success

The player’s goal is achieved as it would have been for the 
original roll. None of the consequences of failure happen.

Pushed Roll: Failure

Failing  a  pushed  roll  grants  the  Keeper  free  rein  over  the 
outcome,  including  damage,  Sanity  checks,  loss  of  equip-
ment,  isolation  from  the  rest  of  the  investigators,  capture, 
and so on. The Keeper can even incorporate the player’s goal 
being  achieved  (even  though  the  player  failed  the  pushed 
roll), but at some form of cost. 

When a player fails a pushed roll, he or she is giving the 
Keeper license to make the investigators’ lives more difficult. 
A  consequence  should  steer  the  game  towards  the  theme 
of horror, taking the investigators one step nearer to their 
doom. A player gets to push a skill roll and, if he or she fails, 
the Keeper gets to push the horror back in that player’s face.

 In the previous example, instead of succeeding in the 
pushed Stealth roll let's say Harvey failed it. The Keeper 
now has license to make matters far worse for Harvey.

“As Harvey tries to blend into the crowd, he finds 
himself jostled as he goes against the flow of people. He 
is pushed against a market stall, knocking it and himself 
over (Harvey takes 1 point of damage). As Harvey falls 
to the pavement, fruit falling on his head, the sudden 
noise of his cry makes the crowd part around him. He 
looks up to see everyone staring at him, including the 
cultists  who  were  in  pursuit.  They  quickly  shout  out, 
“He’s  our  friend!”  as  they  come  forward  and  grab 
Harvey. The crowd of people seem satisfied, and no one 
notices the dagger that one the cultists is now holding 
to Harvey’s ribs as they manhandle him in toan alley. 

Between a rock and a hard place!
i  A setback: a loss of equipment or the death of an ally.
i  The investigator is taken captive rather than killed.
i  A deal: rather than killing the investigator, the ene-

my offers a pact or deal.

i  Fainting: it is perfectly Lovecraftian for a character 
to  faint,  only  to  awaken  later  to  find  themselves 
unharmed and the situation changed.

Harvey is fleeing through underground tunnels, pur-
sued by ghouls. He sees an abyss before him. Perhaps 
he can leap across to the other side. He fails his Jump 
roll. There is really nothing he can do to push this