ERS

Spells: A Tcho-Tcho priest or acolyte knows at least three 
spells, usually including a Contact Deity spell and the Voor-
ish Sign.

TCHO-TCHO, Cruel, savage worshippers of the dark gods
char. 
STR 
CON 
SIZ  
DEX 
INT 
POW 
Note:  Halve  SAN  for  children  and  reduce  Sanity 

rolls
(3D6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)
(2D6+2 ×5)
(3D6 ×5) 
(3D6 ×5)
(3D6 ×5)

averages 
50  
50 
45 
50  
50  
50 

points to 0 in adults.

HP: 9
Average Damage Bonus: none.
Average Build: 0
Average Magic Points: 10
Move: 8

ATTACKS
Attacks per round: 1
Fighting attacks: Tcho-tchos have the usual range 
of  unarmed  attacks  open  to  humanoids 
and can use any human weapons.

Fighting  45%  (22/9),  damage  1D3  +  damage 

bonus or by weapon type

Dodge 26% (13/5)
Armor: None.
Skills: Intimidate 40%, Stealth 60%, Swim, 45%, Track 50%.
Sanity Loss: 0/1D3 to see these degenerate creatures.

Tcho-Tcho

309 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsSection Two: Deities of the 
Mythos
 The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are, and the Old Ones 
shall be. Not in the spaces we know, but ‘between’ them, They 
walk serene and primal, undimensioned and to us unseen.

—H.P. Lovecraft, The Dunwich Horror

Although many of the alien races of the Cthulhu Mythos are 
terrifying, they are nothing before the might of the Mythos 
gods—immense creatures barely within our scope of under-
standing,  all  the  more  horrifying  for  the  fact  that  they  do 
not care about the fate of humanity.

It  should  also  be  noted  that  many  deities  have  avatars. 
These are specific forms, sometimes with specific attributes, 
in which a portion of a god may appear. Cults often worship 
avatars of gods rather than the gods themselves. Nyarlathotep 
is particularly well known for his thousand avatars (or masks). 
The term deity is used here to mean not only gods but 
those with godlike powers, such as Great Cthulhu himself. 
While Cthulhu is worshipped like a god, many believe him 
to be part of an alien race, though whether his brethren are 
like him or are lesser beings is not made clear. Those such as 
Great Cthulhu may be termed Great Old Ones to distinguish 
them from actual gods as we generally understand the term. 
Some  have  tried  to  define  a  pantheon  of  Mythos  gods  or 
to classify them into a hierarchy, such as Elder Gods, Other 
Gods, Outer Gods, Great Old Ones, and so on. In his writ-
ings, Lovecraft was inconsistent in his use of these entities, 
just as real world myths have inconsistencies and contradic-
tions. As Keeper, you should feel empowered to make your 
own  decisions  about  what  fits  your  story,  and  which  gods 
you  wish  to  use  and  how.  These  matters  are  meant  to  be 
beyond man’s understanding, so to define them too closely 
may prove counterproductive.

Each deity has characteristic values listed, though these 
are often so large when compared with those of an investiga-
tor that they may cease to have any useful relevance. They 
are included only to give a sense of scale and completeness. 
As with monsters, these values may be raised or lowered ac-
cording to the scenario and the Keeper’s requirements.

Remember  that  a  roll  is 