 yards in 
diameter. It can be cast around the casters to protect from 
harm or it can be cast to encompass a monster or enemy. 
Any  creature  bisected  by  the  barrier’s  boundary  upon  its 
creation  is unharmed and thrust outside the barrier. Any-
thing trapped should be allowed a STR roll opposed by the 
STR of the barrier. Multiple entrapped victims cannot com-
bine their STR to escape. A bullet or missile can cross the 
barrier if the rolled damage (ignore impales) to the barrier 
is greater than a fifth of the barrier’s STR. If penetrating the 
barrier, the object does the damage rolled, as if the barrier 
did not exist, and the barrier is destroyed.

A  written  copy  of  this  spell  is  known  to  be  in  a  great 
haunted library on a planet orbiting the star Celaeno, one 
of the Pleiades.

Alternative names: Great Ward of Naach-Tith, The Un-

seen Sphere that Entraps the Demon.

Deeper Version
Those  harnessing  the  knowledge  and  power  of  the 
Mythos are able to increase the size of the barrier to 
200 yards in diameter.

Create Mist of R’lyeh
Cost: 2 magic points 
Casting time: Instantaneous

The  spell  causes  a  dense  mist  to  appear  in  an  egg-shaped 
volume (10 × 10 × 15 feet), directly in front of the caster. 
The  long  axis  of  the  cloud  is  always  at  right  angles  to  the 
direction in which the caster faces. The spell obscures vision 
for 1D6+4 game rounds and then evaporates without trace.
Alternative names: Ye Terrible Cloud, Breath of the Dark 

Sea, The Dank Fog of Sailors Lost.

253 

chapter 12: grimoireThe spell can affect only one individual at a time and has 
a maximum range of 10 yards. Obviously the command or 
commands  must  be  intelligible  to  the  target  and  the  spell 
may be broken if a command contradicts the target’s basic 
nature (such as instructing a human to fly).

Dominate  can  be  cast  and  recast  as  many  times  as  the 
caster finds possible, allowing a target to be controlled with-
out interruption for several minutes. Each cast of the spell 
has the same costs and limits. Recasting is instantaneous.

Alternative names: Command of the Wizard, The Chant 

of Possession, Baleful Influence.

Dread Curse of Azathoth
Cost: 4 magic points; 1D6 Sanity points
Casting time: 1 round

The sorcerer draws upon the energies of the Outer God to 
directly drain POW from a victim. By repeating the secret 
name of Azathoth, one can generate respect and fear in any 
being  conversant  with  the  Mythos,  for  to  know  the  name 
implies that one knows the secret Last Syllable. Said alone, 
the Last Syllable may be directed against a foe. For the spell 
to take effect the caster must succeed in an opposed POW 
roll with the target. If the caster is successful, the target loses 
3D6 POW.

Alternative  names:  Utterance  of  the  Last  Syllable,  Ye 

Doleful Leeching, By the True Name Thy Power is Sapped. 

Dust of Suleiman
Cost: 10 magic points per 3 doses.
Casting time: 1 round to apply 1 dose

Creates  a  grey-green  powder  that  harms  unnatural  beings 
from  other  planes  of  existence.  The  powder  requires  the 
dust from an Egyptian mummy at least 2,000 years old; each 
such mummy suffices for three doses of the magic dust. The 
ingredients also include frankincense, sulfur, and saltpeter. 
An incantation must be said over the dust while