 
Keeper decides that the receptionist is allied with the 
investigator’s  enemies  and  will  inform  them  of  the 
investigator’s  enquiry.  To  increase  the  tension,  the 
Keeper  hints  at  this  within  the  consequence.  “The 
receptionist holds up his hands and with a slight smile 
says, ‘I’m sorry sir, I’ve never heard of this gentleman’. 
A few moments later, as you’re leaving the hotel, you 
see him speaking on the phone. You catch his eye and 
he looks away hastily.”

Notice that the receptionist had not been consid-
ered a threat until the player lost the pushed roll. It 
was only then that the Keeper changed the status of the 
receptionist, adding yet another pawn to the enemy.

Alternatively, if the investigator is insane at the time of 
losing the pushed roll then this presents a prime opportuni-
ty to introduce a delusion:

If  in  the  example  above,  Matthew’s  investigator  were 
insane,  the  Keeper  might  pick  an  alternative  conse-
quence, choosing to hit Matthew’s investigator with a 
delusion. “The receptionist is clearly losing his patience 
with you. He informs you again that he knows nothing 
of the person of whom you are enquiring. As he loudly 
states the name, you notice another guest staring hard 
at you. Something writhes beneath his shirt. His skin 
is slick with sweat, his eyes are fixed on you and he is 
mumbling  something  you  can’t  quite  make  out  and 
making  strange  movements  with  his  left  hand.”  In 
reality this is just another mundane guest at the hotel, 
however Matthew (the player) doesn’t know that and 
(suspecting  a  delusion)  asks  for  a  reality  check  (see 
Reality check rolls, page 162). He fails the roll, sending 
his investigator into a bout of madness. The Keeper de-
cides that, during his bout of madness, the investigator 
attacks the innocent bystander until he is restrained by 
hotel  staff,  who  then  summon  the  police. The  Keeper 
tells  Matthew  that  the  next  thing  his  investigator  is 
aware  of  is  lying  on  floor,  pinned  by  a  police  officer’s 
knee, while nearby a man’s beaten body is being attend-
ed to by hotel staff. He has a lot of questions to answer.

Verbal Conflicts
Verbal confrontations should be roleplayed at the table with 
much gusto and performance. However, when there’s a gen-
uine conflict, you will want to pick up the dice. See Charm, 
Fast Talk, Intimidate, and Persuade Skills: Difficulty Lev-
els (page 93) for further details.

You must decide when a non-player character can be co-
erced and when they cannot. It might require a pretty face, a 
threat, a bribe, and so on, but most people can be won over 
with the right approach. Even the most evil of cultists might 
be conned or succumb to threats or persuasion if the players 
somehow find the non-player character’s weakness. Always 
work within the confines of the story—the cult boss would 
not knowingly be persuaded of anything by someone who is 
clearly an enemy, but if the investigator inveigles their way 
into the cult, they might stand a chance.

Hasna has taken a cultist captive and tries to get him 
to reveal the cult’s plans. The Keeper asks what Hasna 
is  doing  to  elicit  information  from  the  cultist  and  it 
soon  becomes  clear  that  intimidation  is  being  used 
rather than persuasion. The cultist has low Intimidate 
and  Psychology  (both  below  50%),  so  the  difficulty 
level starts at Regular. Given the cultist’s motivation, 
the  Keeper  raises  the  level  of  difficulty  to  Extreme. 
There