 
out with a tentacle to attempt to grasp an investiga-
tor. This uses a fighting maneuver; of course the dark 
young  has  a  larger  build  than  any  investigator,  so 
does not take any penalty dice on the maneuver. The 
Keeper rolls an Extreme success. The investigator fails 
to dodge and is seized and lifted high in the air, being 
drained of 12 points of Strength. The dark young will 
keep the investigator held until the poor unfortunate 
has been completely drained.

Third attack: Two of the investigators are getting 
into  their  pickup  truck.  Remember  that  the  dark 
young has an INT of 70, as much as most investiga-
tors,  so  it  may  well  know  what  a  pickup  truck  is.  It 
uses its trample attack on the pickup. At present, the 
vehicle is static and so the Keeper allows an automatic 
success, but makes the attack roll in case of a fumble 
or Extreme success. The attack would normally have 
failed but was not a fumble, so in this case the attack 
against  a  stationary  object  is  successful.  This  deals 
(6D6)  17  damage.  Each  10  full  points  of  damage 
reduces the build of a vehicle by 1 point. 

Fourth attack: Annoyed at how tough the pickup 
truck proved to be, the Keeper decides that the dark 
young will attempt to flip the vehicle. The pickup has 
a build of 6 (it has 1 point of damage, but its listed 
build is still 6), 1 higher than the dark young’s build; 
the  dark  young  can  use  its  fighting  maneuver  but 
must apply 1 penalty die. Again, the car is not moving 
so unless the Keeper rolls a fumble, the attack will be 
successful. The Keeper rolls 24 or 14 (with the penalty 
die)  which,  taking  the  higher  roll,  still  gives  a  Hard 
success. Builds (see page 33) states that a being is just 
able  to  lift  something  that  is  of  1  build  larger  than 
itself. The dark young manages to tip the pickup truck 
over onto its side, with a crash.

For its final attack the dark young simply lashes 
out with a kick at a nearby investigator, and the Keep-
er rolls a Hard success. The player rolls a Hard success 
to dodge, so the investigator avoids the blow.

ster and imagine how it might take advantage of its physical 
form in combat. If it has tentacles, hands, or pincers, it might 
seize hold of its opponent. If it has a prominent mouth then 
it might bite and hold onto its prey. Large creatures might 
simply  trap  their  opponents  with  their  bulk,  crushing  the 
life out of them. Opponents that are seized or grabbed are 

281 

chapter 14: monsters, beasts, and alien godsheld until they succeed in an opposed STR roll or maneuver 
of their own to free themselves.

With a successful maneuver, a monster could:
i  Knock an investigator to the floor, gaining a bonus 
die on its next attack if the investigator is still prone.
i  Push an investigator out of a window or over a cliff.
i  Disarm  an  investigator,  knocking  that  annoying 

"boom-stick" out of his or her hands.

i  Grasp hold of an investigator with a tentacle, gain-
ing  a  bonus  die  to  cause  harm  by  constriction  or 
pummeling  the  held  investigator  against  a  wall  on 
the next attack.

i  If  the  monster  is  large  enough,  it  could  seize  an 
investigator  and  carry  him  or  her  off  next  round, 
perhaps flying away or carrying the held investiga-
tor aloft with a writhing tentacle.

i  A  standard  car  has